1.   A piled-up mass, as of snow or clouds; a heap:  a bank of thunderclouds. 2.   A steep natural incline. 3.   An artificial embankment. 4.   often   banks a.   The slope of land adjoining a body of water, especially adjoining a river, lake, or channel. b.   A large elevated area of a sea floor. 5.    Games   The cushion of a billiard or pool table. 6.   The lateral inward tilting, as of a motor vehicle or an aircraft, in turning or negotiating a curve. 1.   To border or protect with a ridge or embankment. 2.   To pile up; amass:  banked earth along the wall. 3.   To cover (a fire), as with ashes or fresh fuel, to ensure continued low burning. 4.   To construct with a slope rising to the outside edge:  The turns on the racetrack were steeply banked. 5.  a.   To tilt (an aircraft) laterally and inwardly in flight. b.   To tilt (a motor vehicle) laterally and inwardly when negotiating a curve. 6.    Games   To strike (a billiard ball) so that it rebounds from the cushion of the table. 7.    Sports   To play (a ball or puck) in such a way as to make it glance off a surface, such as a backboard or wall. 1.   To rise in or take the form of a bank. 2.   To tilt an aircraft or a motor vehicle laterally when turning. 1.  a.   A business establishment in which money is kept for saving or commercial purposes or is invested, supplied for loans, or exchanged. b.   The offices or building in which such an establishment is located. 2.    Games   a.   The funds of a gambling establishment. b.   The funds held by a dealer or banker in certain games, especially gambling games. c.   The reserve pieces, cards, chips, or play money in some games, such as poker, from which the players may draw. 3.  a.   A supply or stock for future or emergency use:  a grain bank. b.    Medicine   A supply of human fluids or tissues, such as blood, sperm, or skin, that is stored in a facility for future use. 4.   A place of safekeeping or storage:  a computer's memory bank. 1.   To deposit in a bank. 2.   To store for future use. 1.   To transact business with a bank or maintain a bank account. 2.   To operate a bank. 1.   A set of similar or matched things arranged in a row, especially: a.   A set of elevators. b.   A row of keys on a keyboard. 2.    Nautical   a.   A bench for rowers in a galley. b.   A row of oars in a galley. 3.    Printing   The lines of type under a headline. 1.   (Banking & Finance) an institution offering certain financial services, such as the safekeeping of money, conversion of domestic into and from foreign currencies, lending of money at interest, and acceptance of bills of exchange 2.   (Banking & Finance) the building used by such an institution 3.  a small container used at home for keeping money 4.   (Gambling, except Cards) the funds held by a gaming house or a banker or dealer in some gambling games 5.   (Card Games) (in various games) a.  the stock, as of money, pieces, tokens, etc, on which players may draw b.  the player holding this stock 6.  any supply, store, or reserve, for future use:  a data bank ;  a blood bank .  7.   (Banking & Finance) ( tr ) to deposit (cash, cheques, etc) in a bank 8.   (Banking & Finance) ( intr ) to transact business with a bank 9.   (Banking & Finance) ( intr ) to engage in the business of banking 10.   (Gambling, except Cards) ( intr ) to hold the bank in some gambling games 1.  a long raised mass, esp of earth; mound; ridge 2.   (Physical Geography) a slope, as of a hill 3.   (Physical Geography) the sloping side of any hollow in the ground, esp when bordering a river:  the left bank of a river is on a spectator's left looking downstream .  4.   (Physical Geography)  a.  an elevated section, rising to near the surface, of the bed of a sea, lake, or river b.  ( in combination ):  sandbank ;  mudbank .  5.   (Mining & Quarrying)  a.  the area around the mouth of the shaft of a mine b.  the face of a body of ore 6.   (Aeronautics) the lateral inclination of an aircraft about its longitudinal axis during a turn 7.   (Civil Engineering) Also called:  banking ,  camber ,  cant   or   superelevation  a bend on a road or on a railway, athletics, cycling, or other track having the outside built higher than the inside in order to reduce the effects of centrifugal force on vehicles, runners, etc, rounding it at speed and in some cases to facilitate drainage 8.   (Billiards & Snooker) the cushion of a billiard table 9.   (when:  tr,  often foll by  up ) to form into a bank or mound 10.   (Civil Engineering) ( tr ) to border or enclose (a road, etc) with a bank 11.   (sometimes foll by:  up ) to cover (a fire) with ashes, fresh fuel, etc, so that it will burn slowly 12.   (Aeronautics) to cause (an aircraft) to tip laterally about its longitudinal axis or (of an aircraft) to tip in this way, esp while turning 13.  to travel round a bank, esp at high speed 14.   (Billiards & Snooker) ( tr )  billiards  to drive (a ball) into the cushion 1.  an arrangement of objects, esp similar objects, in a row or in tiers:  a bank of dials .  2.   (Nautical Terms)  a.  a tier of oars in a galley b.  a bench for the rowers in a galley 3.   (Printing, Lithography & Bookbinding) a grade of lightweight writing and printing paper used for airmail letters, etc 4.   (Telecommunications)  telephony  (in automatic switching) an assembly of fixed electrical contacts forming a rigid unit in a selector or similar device  ( tr ) to arrange in a bank    1.   a long pile or heap; mass:   a bank of earth; a bank of clouds.      2.   a slope or acclivity.     3.   the slope immediately bordering a stream course along which the water normally runs.     4.   a broad elevation of the sea floor around which the water is relatively shallow but not a hazard to surface navigation.     5.   Also called    cant.    the inclination of the bed of a banked road or track.    6.   the lateral inclination of an aircraft, esp. during a turn.     7.   the cushion of a billiard table.     8.   to border with or like a bank; embank:   banking the flooded river with sandbags.      9.   to form into a bank or heap:   to bank snow along a path.      10.   to build (a road or track) with an upward slope from the inner edge to the outer edge at a curve.     11.   to tip or incline (an airplane) laterally.     12.   (in billiards or pool)   a.   to drive (a ball) to the cushion.     b.   to pocket (the object ball) by driving it against the bank.       13.   to cover (a fire) with ashes or fuel to make it burn long and slowly.     14.   to build up in or form banks, as clouds or snow.     15.   (of an airplane) to tip or incline laterally.     16.   (of a road or track) to slope upward from the inner edge to the outer edge at a curve.     1.   an institution for receiving, lending, and safeguarding money and transacting other financial business.     2.   the stock of pieces drawn upon by players in the course of a game, as dominoes.     3.   the person or office in a gambling house that holds and distributes cash.     4.   a storage place:   blood bank; sperm bank.      5.   a store or reserve.     6.   to keep money in or have an account with a bank.     7.   to deposit in a bank.     8.    bank on,  to count on; depend on.     1.   an arrangement of objects in a line or in tiers:   a bank of lights.      2.   a bench for rowers in a galley.     3.   the group of rowers occupying one bench or rowing one oar.     4.   a number of similar devices connected to act together:   a bank of transformers.      5.   to arrange in a bank.  1.  'bank' The  bank  of a river or lake is the ground at its edge. There are new developments along both  banks  of the Thames. She left her shoes on the  bank  and dived into the lake. A  bank  is also a place where you can keep your money in an account. You should ask your  bank  for a loan. 2.  'bench' and 'seat' Don't call a long, narrow seat in a park or garden a 'bank'. You call it a  bench  or a  seat . Greg sat on the  bench  and waited. She sat on a  seat  in the park and read her magazine.