1.  a.   An open, shallow, usually round container used especially for holding liquids. b.   The amount that such a vessel can hold. 2.   A washbowl; a sink. 3.  a.   An artificially enclosed area of a river or harbor designed so that the water level remains unaffected by tidal changes. b.   A small enclosed or partly enclosed body of water. 4.   A region drained by a single river system:  the Amazon basin. 5.    Geology   a.   A broad tract of land in which the rock strata are tilted toward a common center. b.   A large, bowl-shaped depression in the surface of the land or ocean floor. 1.  a round container open and wide at the top with sides sloping inwards towards the bottom or base, esp one in which liquids are mixed or stored 2.   Also called:  basinful  the amount a basin will hold 3.  a washbasin or sink 4.   (Nautical Terms) any partially enclosed or sheltered area where vessels may be moored or docked 5.   (Physical Geography) the catchment area of a particular river and its tributaries or of a lake or sea 6.   (Physical Geography) a depression in the earth's surface 7.   (Geological Science)  geology  a part of the earth's surface consisting of rock strata that slope down to a common centre    1.   a circular container with a greater width than depth, used chiefly to hold water for washing.     2.   the quantity held by such a container.     3.   a natural or artificial hollow place containing water.     4.   a partially enclosed, sheltered area along a shore where boats may be moored:   a yacht basin.      5.     a.   a hollow or depression in the earth's surface.     b.   an area in which rock strata dip inward toward a common center; a circular or elliptical syncline.     c.    drainage basin.     1.   An enclosed area filled with water. 2.   A region drained by a river and the streams that flow into it. 3.   A low-lying area on the Earth's surface in which thick layers of sediment have accumulated. Some basins are bowl-shaped, and others are shaped like long valleys that have been filled in. Basins are important because they are often a source of valuable oil.