1.   The bed of a stream or river. 2.   The deeper part of a river or harbor, especially a deep navigable passage. 3.   A broad strait, especially one that connects two seas. 4.   A trench, furrow, or groove. 5.   A tubular passage for liquids; a conduit. 6.   A course or pathway through which information is transmitted:  new channels of thought; a reliable channel of information. 7.   often   channels  A route of communication or access:  took her request through official channels. 8.   In communications theory, a gesture, action, sound, written or spoken word, or visual image used in transmitting information. 9.  a.    Electronics   A specified frequency band for the transmission and reception of electromagnetic signals, as for television signals. b.   A continuous program of audio or video content distributed by a television, radio, or Internet broadcaster. 10.    Computers   A chatroom on an online network. 11.   The medium through which a spirit guide purportedly communicates with the physical world. 12.   A rolled metal bar with a bracket-shaped section. 13.  a.   See   ion channel . b.   See   protein channel . 1.   To make or cut channels in. 2.   To form a groove or flute in. 3.   To direct or guide along some desired course:  channels her curiosity into research; channel young people into good jobs. 4.   To serve as a medium for (a spirit guide). 5.   To use or follow as a model; imitate:  a politician channeling bygone conservatives to appear stronger on defense. 1.   (Physical Geography) a broad strait connecting two areas of sea 2.   (Physical Geography) the bed or course of a river, stream, or canal 3.   (Nautical Terms) a navigable course through a body of water 4.   ( often plural ) a means or agency of access, communication, etc:  to go through official channels .  5.  a course into which something can be directed or moved:  a new channel of thought .  6.   (Electronics)  electronics   a.  a band of radio frequencies assigned for a particular purpose, esp the broadcasting of a television signal b.  a path for an electromagnetic signal:  a stereo set has two channels .  c.  a thin semiconductor layer between the source and drain of a field-effect transistor, the conductance of which is controlled by the gate voltage 7.  a tubular or trough-shaped passage for fluids 8.   (Architecture) a groove or flute, as in the shaft of a column 9.   (Computer Science)  computing   a.  a path along which data can be transmitted between a central processing unit and one or more peripheral devices b.  one of the lines along the length of a paper tape on which information can be stored in the form of punched holes 10.   (Metallurgy) short for  channel iron 11.  to provide or be provided with a channel or channels; make or cut channels in (something) 12.   ( tr ) to guide into or convey through a channel or channels:  information was channelled through to them .  13.   (Alternative Belief Systems) to serve as a medium through whom the spirit of (a person of a former age) allegedly communicates with the living 14.   ( tr ) to exhibit the traits of (another person) in one’s actions 15.   (Architecture) ( tr ) to form a groove or flute in (a column, etc)  (Nautical Terms)  nautical  a flat timber or metal ledge projecting from the hull of a vessel above the chainplates to increase the angle of the shrouds  (Placename)  the Channel   short for  English Channel    1.   the bed of a stream, river, or other waterway.     2.   a navigable route between two bodies of water.     3.   the deeper part of a waterway.     4.   a wide strait, as between a continent and an island.     5.   a course into which something may be directed:   to direct a conversation to a new channel.      6.   a route through which anything passes or progresses:   channels of trade.      7.    channels,  the official course or means of communication:   going through channels to reach the governor.      8.   a means of access:   The Senate is his channel to the White House.      9.    channeler (def. 2).      10.   a flute in a column.     11.   a frequency band of sufficient width for one- or two-way communication from or to a transmitter for TV, radio, CB radio, telephone, or telegraph communication.     12.     bus  1  (def. 5).       13.   the two signals in stereophonic or any single signal in multichannel sound recording and reproduction.     14.   a transient opening made by a protein structure embedded in a cell membrane, permitting passage of specific ions or molecules into or out of the cell:   calcium channel.      15.   a tubular passage for liquids or fluids.     16.     a.   any structural member, as one of reinforced concrete, having the form of three sides of a rectangle.     b.   a number of such members.     c.   a flanged metal beam or bar with a  U -shaped cross section.       17.   to convey through or as if through a channel.     18.   to direct toward or into some particular course:   to channel one's interests.      19.   to excavate as a channel.     20.   to form a channel in.     21.   to reach, or convey messages from, by channeling:   to channel an ancient Egyptian spirit.      22.   to become marked by a channel:   Soft earth channels during a heavy rain.      23.   to perform channeling. 