1.   A building for public, especially Christian worship. 2.   often   Church a.   The company of all Christians regarded as a spiritual body. b.   A specified Christian denomination:  the Presbyterian Church. c.   A congregation. 3.   Public divine worship in a church; a religious service:  goes to church at Christmas and Easter. 4.   The clerical profession; clergy. 5.   Ecclesiastical power as distinguished from the secular:  the separation of church and state. 1.   (Ecclesiastical Terms) a building designed for public forms of worship, esp Christian worship 2.   (Ecclesiastical Terms) an occasion of public worship 3.   (Ecclesiastical Terms) the clergy as distinguished from the laity 4.   (Ecclesiastical Terms) ( usually capital ) institutionalized forms of religion as a political or social force:  conflict between Church and State .  5.   (Ecclesiastical Terms) ( usually capital ) the collective body of all Christians 6.   (Ecclesiastical Terms) ( often capital ) a particular Christian denomination or group of Christian believers 7.   (Ecclesiastical Terms) ( often capital ) the Christian religion 8.   (Ecclesiastical Terms) (in Britain) the practices or doctrines of the Church of England and similar denominations. Compare  chapel 4b 9.   (Anglicanism)  Church of England  to bring (someone, esp a woman after childbirth) to church for special ceremonies 10.   (Ecclesiastical Terms)  US  to impose church discipline upon    1.   a building for public Christian worship.     2.   a religious service in a church.     3.   ( cap. )   a.   the whole body of Christian believers; Christendom.     b.   any major division of this body; a Christian denomination.       4.   a Christian congregation.     5.   organized religion as distinguished from the state.     6.   ( cap. ) the Christian Church before the Reformation.     7.   the profession of an ecclesiastic.     8.   to perform a church service for (a woman after childbirth).  1.  the study of church building and decoration. 2.   Theology . the doctrine of the church. 3.  the policy and operations of the church.  —  ecclesiologist ,  n .  —  ecclesiologic, ecclesiological ,  adj .