1.   A center of population, commerce, and culture; a town of significant size and importance. 2.  a.   An incorporated municipality in the United States with definite boundaries and legal powers set forth in a charter granted by the state. b.   A Canadian municipality of high rank, usually determined by population but varying by province. c.   A large incorporated town in Great Britain, usually the seat of a bishop, with its title conferred by the Crown. 3.   The inhabitants of a city considered as a group. 4.   An ancient Greek city-state. 5.    Slang   Used in combination as an intensive:  The playing field was mud city after the big rain. 6.    City  The financial and commercial center of London. Used with  the. 1.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) any large town or populous place 2.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) (in Britain) a large town that has received this title from the Crown: usually the seat of a bishop 3.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) (in the US) an incorporated urban centre with its own government and administration established by state charter 4.  (in Canada) a similar urban municipality incorporated by the provincial government 5.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) an ancient Greek city-state; polis 6.  the people of a city collectively 7.   ( modifier ) in or characteristic of a city:  a city girl ;  city habits .  1.   (Placename) short for  City of London : the original settlement of London on the N bank of the Thames; a municipality governed by the Lord Mayor and Corporation. Resident pop: 7186 (2001) 2.   (Banking & Finance) the area in central London in which the United Kingdom's major financial business is transacted 3.   (Banking & Finance) the various financial institutions located in this area    1.   a large or important town.     2.   (in the U.S.) an incorporated municipality, usu. governed by a mayor and council.     3.   the inhabitants of a city collectively:   The entire city is celebrating.      4.   (in Canada) a municipality of high rank, usu. based on population.     5.   (in Great Britain) a borough, usu. the seat of a bishop, having its title conferred by the Crown.     6.    the City,  the commercial and financial area of London, England.     7.   a city-state.     8.   ( often cap. )  Slang.  a place, person, or situation having certain features or characteristics (used in combination):   The party last night was Action City. That guy is dull city.  