1.  a.   An institution of higher learning that grants the bachelor's degree in liberal arts or science or both. b.   An undergraduate division or school of a university offering courses and granting degrees in a particular field or group of fields. c.   A junior or community college. d.   A school offering special instruction in a professional or technical subject:  a medical college. e.   The students, faculty, and administration of one of these schools or institutions:  new policies adopted by the college. f.   The building, buildings, or grounds where one of these schools or institutions is located:  drove over to the college. g.    Chiefly British   A self-governing society of scholars for study or instruction, incorporated within a university. h.   An institution for secondary education in France and certain other countries that is not supported by the state. 2.  a.   A body of persons having a common purpose or shared duties:  a college of surgeons. b.   An electoral college. 3.   A body of clerics living together on an endowment. 1.   (Education) an institution of higher education; part of a university 2.   (Education) a school or an institution providing specialized courses or teaching:  a college of music .  3.   (Education) the building or buildings in which a college is housed 4.   (Education) the staff and students of a college 5.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) an organized body of persons with specific rights and duties:  an electoral college . See also  Sacred College 6.   (Ecclesiastical Terms) a body of clerics living in community and supported by endowment 7.  chiefly   Brit  an obsolete slang word for  prison    1.   an institution of higher learning that provides a general education in the liberal arts and sciences and grants a bachelor's degree. Compare  university.      2.   a constituent unit of a university offering instruction in a particular field of study.     3.   an institution for vocational, technical, or professional instruction:   a business college.      4.   an endowed, self-governing association of scholars incorporated within a university, as at Oxford and Cambridge in England.     5.   the building or buildings occupied by an institution of higher education.     6.   the administrators, faculty, and students of a college.     7.    Brit.  a private secondary school.     8.   an organized association of persons having certain powers and rights, and performing certain duties or engaged in a particular pursuit:   the electoral college.      9.   a company; assemblage.     10.   a body of clerics living in a funded institution. 