1.  a.   A nation or state. b.   The territory of a nation or state; land. c.   The people of a nation or state; populace:  The whole country will profit from the new economic reforms. 2.   The land of a person's birth or citizenship:  Foreign travel is restricted in his country. 3.   A region, territory, or large tract of land distinguishable by features of topography, biology, or culture:  hill country; Bible country. 4.   An area or expanse outside cities and towns; a rural area:  a vacation in the country. 5.    Law   a.   The people of a district who are eligible for jury service. b.   A jury. 6.    Informal   Country music. 1.   Of, relating to, or typical of the country:  a country road; country cooking. 2.   Of or relating to country music. 1.   (Human Geography) a territory distinguished by its people, culture, language, geography, etc 2.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) an area of land distinguished by its political autonomy; state 3.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) the people of a territory or state:  the whole country rebelled .  4.  an area associated with a particular person:  Burns country .  5.   (Human Geography)  a.  the part of the land that is away from cities or industrial areas; rural districts b.  ( as modifier ):  country cottage .  c.  ( in combination ):  a countryman .  6.   (Music, other) short for  country music 7.  archaic  a particular locality or district 8.  up country  away from the coast or the capital 9.   (Anthropology & Ethnology) one's native land or nation of citizenship 10.   (General Sporting Terms)  the country  informal   Brit  the outlying area or area furthest from the finish of a sports ground or racecourse 11.   ( modifier ) rough; uncouth; rustic:  country manners .  12.  across country  not keeping to roads, etc 13.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy)  go to the country  appeal to the country  chiefly   Brit  to dissolve Parliament and hold an election 14.  unknown country  an unfamiliar topic, place, matter, etc    1.   a state or nation:   European countries.      2.   the territory of a nation.     3.   the people of a district, state, or nation.     4.   the land of one's birth or citizenship.     5.   rural districts, as opposed to cities or towns.     6.   any considerable territory demarcated by topographical conditions, by a distinctive population, etc.     7.   the public at large, as represented by a jury.     8.    country music.      9.   of, from, or characteristic of the country; rural.     10.   rude; unpolished; rustic:   country manners.      11.   of, from, or pertaining to a particular country.     12.    Obs.  of one's own country.  1.  'country' A  country  is one of the political areas that the world is divided into. Indonesia is the fifth most populous  country  in the world. Does this system apply in other European  countries ? 2.  'the country' Land that is away from towns and cities is  the country . We live in  the country . Many people moved away from  the country  to the towns. Be Careful! When you use  country  like this, the only determiner you can use with it is  the . Don't say, for example, ' I like living in Paris, but my parents prefer to live in a country '. You say 'I like living in Paris, but my parents prefer to live in  the country '. 3.  'countryside' Land that is away from towns and cities can also be called  the countryside . I've always wanted to live in  the countryside . Countryside  can be used without 'the' when it is used after an adjective. We are surrounded by  beautiful countryside .