1.   A bowl-shaped depression created by the activity of a volcano or geyser. 2.  a.   A bowl-shaped depression in a surface made by an explosion or the impact of a body, such as a meteoroid. b.   A pit; a hollow. 3.   Variant of   krater . 1.   To form a crater or craters. 2.    Slang   a.   To fall and crash violently from a great height. b.   To fail utterly:  "talked about how tough times were in Texas since the oil business cratered"   (Stephen Coonts). 1.   (Geological Science) the bowl-shaped opening at the top or side of a volcano or top of a geyser through which lava and gases are emitted 2.   (Physical Geography) a similarly shaped depression formed by the impact of a meteorite or exploding bomb 3.   (Astronomy) any of the circular or polygonal walled formations covering the surface of the moon and some other planets, formed probably either by volcanic action or by the impact of meteorites. They can have a diameter of up to 240 kilometres (150 miles) and a depth of 8900 metres (29 000 feet) 4.  a pit in an otherwise smooth surface 5.   (Archaeology) a large open bowl with two handles, used for mixing wines, esp in ancient Greece 6.   (Geological Science) to make or form craters in (a surface, such as the ground) 7.  slang  to fail; collapse; crash  (Astronomy) a small faint constellation in the S hemisphere lying between Virgo and Hydra    1.   the cup-shaped depression or cavity on the surface of the earth or other heavenly body marking the orifice of a volcano.     2.   (on the surface of the earth, moon, etc.) a bowl-shaped depression with a raised rim, formed by the impact of a meteoroid.     3.   the hole in the ground where a bomb, shell, or military mine has exploded.     4.    krater.      5.   to make a crater or craters in.     6.   to form a crater or craters.  1.   A bowl-shaped depression at the top of a volcano or at the mouth of a geyser. Volcanic craters can form because of magma explosions, in which a large amount of lava is thrown out from a volcano, leaving a hole, or because the roof of rock over an underground magma pool collapses after the magma has flowed away. 2.   A shallow, bowl-shaped hole in a surface, formed by an explosion or by the impact of a body, such as a meteorite.