1.  a.   A platform extending from a shore over water, used to secure, protect, and provide access to a boat or ship; a pier. b.    docks  An area along a commercial waterfront having docks or piers. c.   The area of water between two piers or alongside a pier that receives a vessel for loading, unloading, or repairs:  The boat moved slowly into the dock. 2.   A floating platform attached to a mooring and used as a rest or play area when swimming. 3.   A platform or door at which trucks or trains load or unload cargo. 4.    Computers   See   docking station . 1.   To maneuver (a vessel or vehicle) into or next to a dock. 2.   To couple (two or more spacecraft, for example) in space. 1.   The solid or fleshy part of an animal's tail. 2.   The tail of an animal after it has been bobbed or clipped. 1.   To clip short or cut off (an animal's tail, for example). 2.   To deprive of a benefit or a part of one's wages, especially as a punishment:  The company docks its employees for unauthorized absences. 3.   To withhold or deduct a part from (one's salary or wages). 1.   (Civil Engineering) a wharf or pier 2.   (Civil Engineering) a space between two wharves or piers for the mooring of ships 3.   (Civil Engineering) an area of water that can accommodate a ship and can be closed off to allow regulation of the water level 4.   (Civil Engineering) short for  dry dock 5.   (Theatre) short for  scene dock 6.   (Civil Engineering)  chiefly   US   and   Canadian  a platform from which lorries, goods trains, etc, are loaded and unloaded 7.   (Nautical Terms) to moor (a vessel) at a dock or (of a vessel) to be moored at a dock 8.   (Nautical Terms) to put (a vessel) into a dry dock for repairs or (of a vessel) to come into a dry dock 9.   (Astronautics) (of two spacecraft) to link together in space or link together (two spacecraft) in space 1.   (Zoology) the bony part of the tail of an animal, esp a dog or sheep 2.   (Zoology) the part of an animal's tail left after the major part of it has been cut off 3.   (Veterinary Science) to remove (the tail or part of the tail) of (an animal) by cutting through the bone:  to dock a tail ;  to dock a horse .  4.   (Industrial Relations & HR Terms) to deduct (an amount) from (a person's wages, pension, etc):  they docked a third of his wages .   (Law) an enclosed space in a court of law where the accused sits or stands during his or her trial 1.   (Plants) any of various temperate weedy plants of the polygonaceous genus  Rumex,  having greenish or reddish flowers and typically broad leaves 2.   (Plants) any of several similar or related plants    1.   a landing pier.     2.   the space or waterway between two piers or wharves, as for receiving a ship while in port.     3.   such a waterway, enclosed or open, together with the surrounding piers, wharves, etc.     4.    dry dock.      5.   a platform for loading and unloading trucks, railway freight cars, etc.     6.   to bring (a ship or boat) into a dock; lay up in a dock.     7.   to place in dry dock, as for repairs or painting.     8.   to join (an orbiting space vehicle) with another spacecraft or with a space station.     9.   to come or go into a dock.     10.   (of two space vehicles) to join together while in orbit.     1.   the solid or fleshy part of an animal's tail, as distinguished from the hair.     2.   the part of a tail left after cutting or clipping.     3.   to cut off the end of; cut short:   to dock a tail.      4.   to cut short the tail of.     5.   to deduct a part from (wages).     6.   to deduct from the wages of, usu. as a punishment.     7.   to deprive of something regularly enjoyed:   The campers were docked for disobeying their counselor.  