1.   To draw off (a liquid) by a gradual process:  drained water from the sink. 2.  a.   To cause liquid to go out from; empty:  drained the bathtub; drain the pond. b.   To draw off the surface water of:  The Mississippi River drains a vast area. 3.   To drink all the contents of:  drained the cup. 4.  a.   To cause (a resource or supply of something) to be used up gradually and often completely. See Synonyms at   deplete . b.   To fatigue or spend emotionally or physically:  The day's events drained me of energy. 5.    Sports   To put (a ball or shot) into a hole or basket, as in golf or basketball:  drained the putt for a birdie. 1.   To flow off or out:  Gasoline drained slowly from the tilted can. 2.   To become empty by the drawing off of liquid:  watched the tub slowly drain. 3.   To discharge surface or excess water:  The Niagara River drains into Lake Ontario. When flooded, the swamp drains northward. 4.   To become gradually depleted; dwindle:  felt his enthusiasm draining. 1.   A pipe or channel by which liquid is drawn off. 2.    Medicine   A device, such as a tube, inserted into the opening of a wound or body cavity to facilitate discharge of fluid or purulent material. 3.   The act or process of draining. 4.  a.   A gradual outflow or loss; consumption or depletion:  the drain of young talent by emigration. b.   Something that causes a gradual loss:  interruptions that are a drain on my patience. 1.   (Civil Engineering) a pipe or channel that carries off water, sewage, etc 2.  an instance or cause of continuous diminution in resources or energy; depletion 3.   (Surgery)  surgery  a device, such as a tube, for insertion into a wound, incision, or bodily cavity to drain off pus, etc 4.   (Electronics)  electronics  the electrode region in a field-effect transistor into which majority carriers flow from the interelectrode conductivity channel 5.  down the drain  wasted 6.   (often foll by:  off ) to draw off or remove (liquid) from:  to drain water from vegetables ;  to drain vegetables .  7.   (often foll by:  away ) to flow (away) or filter (off) 8.   ( intr ) to dry or be emptied as a result of liquid running off or flowing away:  leave the dishes to drain .  9.   ( tr ) to drink the entire contents of (a glass, cup, etc) 10.   ( tr ) to consume or make constant demands on (resources, energy, etc); exhaust; sap 11.   ( intr ) to disappear or leave, esp gradually:  the colour drained from his face .  12.   (Physical Geography) ( tr ) (of a river, etc) to carry off the surface water from (an area) 13.   (Physical Geography) ( intr ) (of an area) to discharge its surface water into rivers, streams, etc    1.   to draw off (a liquid) gradually.     2.   to empty by drawing off liquid.     3.   to exhaust the strength or resources of.     4.   to flow off or empty gradually.     5.   a pipe, conduit, etc., by which a liquid drains.     6.   an act of draining.     7.   something that causes a large outflow or depletion. 