1.   A tract of land cultivated for the purpose of agricultural production. 2.  a.   A tract of land devoted to the raising and breeding of domestic animals. b.   An area of water devoted to the raising, breeding, or production of a specific aquatic animal:  a trout farm; an oyster farm. 3.  a.   A facility for the generation of energy by converting it from a particular source, usually by means of multiple electric generators:  a wind farm. b.   A place where a group of similar devices or storage containers are set up:  a tank farm; a server farm. 4.    Baseball   A minor-league club affiliated with a major-league club for the training of recruits and the maintenance of temporarily unneeded players. 5.    Obsolete   a.   The system of leasing out the rights of collecting and retaining taxes in a certain district. b.   A district so leased. 1.   To cultivate or produce a crop on (land). 2.   To cultivate, breed, or raise (plants or animals). 3.   To pay a fixed sum in order to have the right to collect and retain profits from (a business, for example). 4.   To turn over (a business, for example) to another in return for the payment of a fixed sum. 1.   To send (work, for example) from a central point to be done elsewhere. 2.    Baseball   To assign (a player) to a minor-league team. 1.   (Agriculture)  a.  a tract of land, usually with house and buildings, cultivated as a unit or used to rear livestock b.  ( as modifier ):  farm produce .  c.  ( in combination ):  farmland .  2.   (Agriculture) a unit of land or water devoted to the growing or rearing of some particular type of vegetable, fruit, animal, or fish:  a fish farm .  3.  an installation for storage 4.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) a district of which one or more taxes are leased 5.   (Historical Terms)  history   a.  a fixed sum paid by an individual or group for the right of collecting and retaining taxes, rents, etc b.  a fixed sum paid regularly by a town, county, etc, in lieu of taxes c.  the leasing of a source of revenue to an individual or group d.  a fixed tax, rent, etc, paid regularly 6.   (Agriculture) ( tr )  a.  to cultivate (land) b.  to rear (stock, etc) on a farm 7.   (Agriculture) ( intr ) to engage in agricultural work, esp as a way of life 8.   (Commerce) ( tr ) to look after a child for a fixed sum 9.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy)  a.  to collect the moneys due and retain the profits from (a tax district, business, etc) for a specified period on payment of a sum or sums b.  to operate (a franchise) under similar conditions    1.   a tract of land, usu. with a house, barn, silo, etc., on which crops and often livestock are raised for livelihood.     2.   land or water devoted to the raising of animals, fish, plants, etc.:   a pig farm; an oyster farm.      3.   the system, method, or act of collecting revenue by leasing a territory in districts.     4.   a country or district leased for the collection of revenue.     5.   a fixed yearly amount accepted from a person in view of local or district taxes that he or she is authorized to collect.     6.    Eng. Hist.    a.   the rent or income from leased property.     b.   the condition of being leased at a fixed rent; possession under lease; a lease.       7.    Obs.  a fixed yearly amount payable in the form of rent, taxes, or the like.     8.   to cultivate (land).     9.   to take the proceeds or profits of (a tax, undertaking, etc.) on paying a fixed sum.     10.   to let or lease (taxes, revenues, an enterprise, etc.) to another for a fixed sum or a percentage (often fol. by  out ).     11.   to let or lease the labor or services of (a person) for hire.     12.   to contract for the maintenance of (a person, institution, etc.):   a county that farms its poor.      13.   to cultivate the soil; operate a farm.     14.    farm out,    a.   to assign or subcontract (work) to another, esp. to a smaller concern.     b.   to assign the care of (a child) to another.     c.   to assign (a baseball player) to a farm team.     d.   to exhaust (farmland) by overcropping.   