1.  a.   Any of the distinct parts of the face, as the eyes, nose, or mouth. b.   often   features  The overall appearance of the face or its parts. 2.   A prominent or distinctive part, quality, or characteristic:  a feature of one's personality; a feature of the landscape. 3.    Linguistics   a.   A property of linguistic units or forms:  Nasality is a phonological feature. b.   In generative linguistics, any of various abstract entities that specify or combine to specify phonological, morphological, semantic, and syntactic properties of linguistic forms and that act as the targets of linguistic rules and operations. 4.  a.   The main film presentation at a theater. b.   A long, narrative movie, typically lasting more than one hour. 5.   A special attraction at an entertainment. 6.   A prominent or special article, story, or department in a newspaper or periodical. 7.   An item advertised or offered as particularly attractive or as an inducement:  a washing machine with many features. 8.    Archaic   a.   Outward appearance; form or shape. b.   Physical beauty. 1.   To give special attention to; display, publicize, or make prominent. 2.   To have or include as a prominent part or characteristic:  The play featured two well-known actors. 3.   To depict or outline the features of. 4.    Informal   To picture mentally; imagine:  Can you feature her in that hat? 1.  any one of the parts of the face, such as the nose, chin, or mouth 2.  a prominent or distinctive part or aspect, as of a landscape, building, book, etc 3.  the principal film in a programme at a cinema 4.   (Journalism & Publishing) an item or article appearing regularly in a newspaper, magazine, etc:  a gardening feature .  5.   (Journalism & Publishing) Also called:  feature story  a prominent story in a newspaper, etc:  a feature on prison reform .  6.   (Film) a programme given special prominence on radio or television as indicated by attendant publicity 7.   (Marketing) an article offered for sale as a special attraction, as in a large retail establishment 8.  archaic  general form or make-up 9.   (Linguistics)  linguistics  a quality of a linguistic unit at some level of description:  grammatical feature ;  semantic feature .  10.   ( tr ) to have as a feature or make a feature of 11.   (Film) to give prominence to (an actor, famous event, etc) in a film or (of an actor, etc) to have prominence in a film 12.   ( tr )  informal   US  to imagine; consider:  I can't feature that happening .     1.   a prominent or conspicuous part or characteristic:   The best feature of the house is the sun porch.      2.   something offered as a special or main attraction.     3.   Also called  fea′ture film′.  the main motion picture in a movie program.     4.   any part of the face, as the nose, chin, or eyes.     5.    features,  the face; countenance.     6.   the form or cast of the face:   delicate of feature.      7.   a column, cartoon, etc., appearing regularly in a newspaper or magazine.     8.    feature story.      9.   to make a feature of; give prominence to.     10.   to have or present (a performer) in a lead role or a prominent supporting role.     11.   to be a feature or distinctive mark of.     12.   to delineate the main characteristics of; depict.     13.    Informal.  to conceive of; imagine; fancy.     14.    Chiefly Dial.  to resemble in features; favor.     15.   to play a major part.     16.   being or offered as a highlight; featured:   the feature attraction at the fair.  