1.   A roofed promenade, especially one extending along the wall of a building and supported by arches or columns on the outer side. 2.   A long enclosed passage, such as a hallway or corridor. 3.  a.   A narrow balcony, usually having a railing or balustrade, along the outside of a building. b.   A projecting or recessed passageway along an upper story on the interior or exterior of a large building, generally marked by a colonnade or arcade. c.   Such a passageway situated over the aisle of a church and opening onto the nave. Also called   tribune 2 . 4.    Southwestern Gulf States   See   veranda . 5.  a.   An upper section, often with a sloping floor, projecting from the rear or side walls of a theater or an auditorium to provide additional seating. b.   The seats in such a section, usually cheaper than those on the main floor. c.   The cheapest seats in a theater, generally those of the uppermost gallery. d.   The audience occupying a gallery or cheap section of a theater. 6.   A large audience or group of spectators, as at a tennis or golf match. 7.   The general public, usually considered as exemplifying a lack of discrimination or sophistication:  accused the administration of playing to the gallery on the defense issue. 8.  a.   A building, room, or website for the exhibition of artistic work. b.   An establishment that displays and sells works of art. c.   A photographer's studio. 9.   A collection; an assortment:  The trial featured a gallery of famous and flamboyant witnesses. 10.  a.   An underground tunnel or passageway, as in a cave or one dug for military or mining purposes. b.   A tunnel or series of tunnels made by an animal. 11.    Nautical   A platform or balcony at the stern or quarters of some early sailing ships. 12.   A decorative upright trimming or molding along the edge of a table top, tray, or shelf. 1.   (Art Terms) a room or building for exhibiting works of art 2.   (Architecture) a covered passageway open on one side or on both sides. See also  colonnade 1 3.   (Architecture)  a.  a balcony running along or around the inside wall of a church, hall, etc b.  a covered balcony, sometimes with columns on the outside 4.   (Theatre)  theatre   a.  an upper floor that projects from the rear over the main floor and contains the cheapest seats b.  the seats there c.  the audience seated there 5.   (Architecture) a long narrow room, esp one used for a specific purpose:  a shooting gallery .  6.   (Commerce)  chiefly   US  a building or room where articles are sold at auction 7.   (Mining & Quarrying) an underground passage, as in a mine, the burrow of an animal, etc 8.   (Theatre)  theatre  a narrow raised platform at the side or along the back of the stage for the use of technicians and stagehands 9.   (Broadcasting) (in a TV studio) a glass-fronted soundproof room high up to one side of the studio looking into it. One gallery is used by the director and an assistant and one is for lighting, etc 10.   (Nautical Terms)  nautical  a balcony or platform at the quarter or stern of a ship, sometimes used as a gun emplacement 11.   (Furniture) a small ornamental metal or wooden balustrade or railing on a piece of furniture, esp one surrounding the top of a desk, table, etc 12.  any group of spectators, as at a golf match 13.  play to the gallery  to try to gain popular favour, esp by crude appeals    1.   a raised area, often having a stepped or sloping floor, in a theater, church, or other public building to accommodate spectators, exhibits, etc.     2.   the uppermost of such areas in a theater, usu. containing the cheapest seats.     3.   the occupants of such an area in a theater.     4.   the undiscriminating public.     5.   any group of spectators or observers, as at a golf match or a legislative session.     6.   a room, series of rooms, or building devoted to the exhibition and often the sale of works of art.     7.   a long covered area, narrow and open at one or both sides, used esp. as a walk or corridor.     8.    Chiefly South Atlantic States.  a long porch or portico; veranda.     9.   a long, relatively narrow room, esp. one for public use.     10.   a raised, balconylike platform or passageway running along the exterior wall of a building inside or outside.     11.   a large room or building used for photography, target practice, or other special purposes:   a shooting gallery.      12.   a collection or group:   a gallery of misfits.      13.   a projecting balcony or structure on the quarter or stern of a ship.     14.   an ornamental railing surrounding the top of a table, desk, etc.     15.    Mining.  a level or drift.     16.   an underground passageway in a mine, earthwork, or fortification.     17.   a passageway made by an animal. 