1.   also   shoppe  A small retail store or a specialty department in a large store. 2.   An atelier; a studio. 3.   A place for manufacturing or repairing goods or machinery. 4.   A commercial or industrial establishment:  a printing shop. 5.   A business establishment; an office or a center of activity. 6.   A home workshop. 7.  a.   A schoolroom fitted with machinery and tools for instruction in industrial arts. b.   The industrial arts as a technical science or course of study. 1.   To visit stores in search of merchandise or bargains. 2.   To look for something with the intention of acquiring it. 1.   To go from store to store in search of merchandise or bargains. 2.   To look for something, such as a better job. 3.   To offer (a large block of common stock, for example) for sale to various parties:  " [The company]  is now actively being shopped around, with a prospectus in circulation"   (Marianne Yen). 1.   (Commerce) a place, esp a small building, for the retail sale of goods and services 2.  an act or instance of shopping, esp household shopping:  the weekly shop .  3.  a place for the performance of a specified type of work; workshop 4.  all over the shop  informal   a.  in disarray:  his papers were all over the shop .  b.  in every direction:  I've searched for it all over the shop .  5.   (Commerce)  shut up shop  a.  to close business at the end of the day or permanently b.  to become defensive or inactive 6.  talk shop  to speak about one's work, esp when meeting socially, sometimes with the effect of excluding those not similarly employed 7.   (often foll by:  for ) to visit a shop or shops in search of (goods) with the intention of buying them 8.   ( tr )  slang   chiefly   Brit  to inform on or betray, esp to the police    1.   a retail store, esp. a small one.     2.   a small store or department in a large store selling a specific or select type of goods.     3.   the workshop of an artisan.     4.   a place for doing specific, skilled manual work; workshop:   a carpenter's shop.      5.   any factory, office, or business.     6.     a.   a school course in a trade, as carpentry or printing, in which the use of tools is taught.     b.   a classroom in which such a course is given.       7.   to visit shops and stores for the purpose of purchasing or examining goods.     8.   to purchase goods through the mail or by telephone.     9.   to search; hunt (often fol. by  for ):   I'm shopping for a safe investment.      10.   to shop at (a particular store or stores).  1.  'magazine' A  magazine  is a collection of articles, photographs, and advertisements published every week or every month. Her face was on the cover of every  magazine . Tanya read a  magazine  while she waited. 2.  'shop' Don't use 'magazine' to refer to a building or part of a building where things are sold. The word you use is  shop  or  store . There is a row of  shops  on the High Street. 1.  'shop' used as a verb Shop  can also be a verb. When people  shop , they go to shops and buy things. I usually  shop  on Saturdays. 2.  'shopping' You usually say that someone  goes shopping , rather than that they 'shop'. They  went shopping  after lunch. When someone goes to the shops to buy things that they need regularly, such as food, you say that they  do the shopping  or  do their shopping . Who's going to  do the shopping ? She went to the next town to  do her shopping . Shopping  can be used without 'do' or 'go' to refer to the activity of buying things from shops. I don't like  shopping . Shopping  can also refer to the things that someone has just bought from a shop or shops. She put her  shopping  away in the kitchen. Shopping  is an uncountable noun. Don't talk about ' a shopping ' or someone's ' shoppings '.