1.   A corridor or passageway in a building. 2.   A large entrance room or vestibule in a building; a lobby. 3.  a.   A building for public gatherings or entertainments. b.   The large room in which such events are held. 4.   A building used for the meetings, entertainments, or living quarters of a fraternity, sorority, church, or other social or religious organization. 5.  a.   A building belonging to a school, college, or university that provides classroom, dormitory, or dining facilities. b.   A large room in such a building. c.   The group of students using such a building:  The entire hall stayed up late studying. d.    Chiefly British   A meal served in such a building. 6.   The main house on a landed estate. 7.  a.   The castle or house of a medieval monarch or noble. b.   The principal room in such a castle or house, used for dining, entertaining, and sleeping. 1.   (Architecture) a room serving as an entry area within a house or building 2.   (Architecture) ( sometimes capital ) a building for public meetings 3.   (Architecture) ( often capital ) the great house of an estate; manor 4.   (Education) a large building or room used for assemblies, worship, concerts, dances, etc 5.   (Education) a residential building, esp in a university; hall of residence 6.   (Education)  a.  a large room, esp for dining, in a college or university b.  a meal eaten in this room 7.   (Architecture) the large room of a house, castle, etc 8.   (Architecture)  US   and   Canadian  a passage or corridor into which rooms open 9.   (Theatre) ( often plural )  informal  short for  music hall 1.   (Biography)  Charles Martin.  1863–1914, US chemist: discovered the electrolytic process for producing aluminium 2.   (Biography) Sir  John.  1824–1907, New Zealand statesman, born in England: prime minister of New Zealand (1879–82) 3.   (Biography) Sir  Peter.  born 1930, English stage director: director of the Royal Shakespeare Company (1960–73) and of the National Theatre (1973–88) 4.   (Biography) ( Margueritte )  Radclyffe . 1883–1943, British novelist and poet. Her frank treatment of a lesbian theme in the novel  The Well of Loneliness  (1928) led to an obscenity trial    1.   a corridor or passageway in a building.     2.   the large entrance room of a house or building; vestibule; lobby.     3.   a large room or building for public gatherings; auditorium:   a concert hall.      4.   a large building for residence, instruction, or other purposes at a college or university.     5.   a college that is part of a university.     6.   (in English colleges)   a.   a large room in which the members and students dine.     b.   dinner in such a room.       7.   the chief room in a medieval castle or similar structure, used for eating, sleeping, and entertaining.     8.   the castle, house, or similar structure of a medieval chieftain or noble.     1.    Charles Francis,  1821–71, U.S. Arctic explorer.     2.    Charles Martin,  1863–1914, U.S. chemist and metallurgist. 