1.  a.   A structure serving as a dwelling for one or more persons, especially for a family. b.   A household or family. 2.   Something, such as a burrow or shell, that serves as a shelter or habitation for a wild animal. 3.   A dwelling for a group of people, such as students or members of a religious community, who live together as a unit:  a sorority house. 4.   A building that functions as the primary shelter or location of something:  a carriage house; the lion house at the zoo. 5.  a.   A facility, such as a theater or restaurant, that provides entertainment or food for the public:  a movie house; the specialty of the house. b.   The audience or patrons of such an establishment:  a full house. 6.  a.   A commercial firm:  a brokerage house. b.   A publishing company:  a house that specializes in cookbooks. c.   A gambling casino. d.    Slang   A house of prostitution. 7.   A residential college within a university. 8.  a.   often   House  A legislative or deliberative assembly. b.   The hall or chamber in which such an assembly meets. c.   A quorum of such an assembly. 9.   often   House  A family line including ancestors and descendants, especially a royal or noble family:  the House of Orange. 10.  a.   One of the 12 parts into which the heavens are divided in astrology. b.   The sign of the zodiac indicating the seat or station of a planet in the heavens. Also called   mansion . 11.   House music. 1.   To provide living quarters for; lodge:  The cottage housed ten students. 2.   To shelter, keep, or store in a house or other structure:  a library housing rare books. 3.   To fit (something) into a socket or mortise. 4.    Nautical   To secure or stow safely. 1.   To reside; dwell. 2.   To take shelter. 1.  a.  a building used as a home; dwelling b.  ( as modifier ):  house dog .  2.  the people present in a house, esp its usual occupants 3.  a.  a building used for some specific purpose b.  ( in combination ):  a schoolhouse .  4.   (Historical Terms) ( often capital ) a family line including ancestors and relatives, esp a noble one:  the House of York .  5.   (Commerce)  a.  a commercial company; firm:  a publishing house .  b.  ( as modifier ):  house style ;  a house journal .  6.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) an official deliberative or legislative body, such as one chamber of a bicameral legislature 7.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) a quorum in such a body (esp in the phrase  make a house ) 8.   (Ecclesiastical Terms) a dwelling for a religious community 9.   (Astrology)  astrology  any of the 12 divisions of the zodiac. See also  planet 3 10.   (Education)  a.  any of several divisions, esp residential, of a large school b.  ( as modifier ):  house spirit .  11.   (Commerce)  a.  a hotel, restaurant, bar, inn, club, etc, or the management of such an establishment b.  ( as modifier ):  house rules .  c.  ( in combination ):  steakhouse .  12.   ( modifier ) (of wine) sold unnamed by a restaurant, at a lower price than wines specified on the wine list:  the house red .  13.   (Theatre) the audience in a theatre or cinema 14.   an informal word for  brothel 15.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) a hall in which an official deliberative or legislative body meets 16.   (Games, other than specified) See  full house 17.   (Curling)  curling  the 12-foot target circle around the tee 18.   (Nautical Terms)  nautical  any structure or shelter on the weather deck of a vessel 19.   (Theatre)  bring the house down  theatre  to win great applause 20.  house and home   an emphatic form of  home 21.  keep open house  to be always ready to provide hospitality 22.  like a house on fire  informal  very well, quickly, or intensely 23.  on the house  (usually of drinks) paid for by the management of the hotel, bar, etc 24.  put one's house in order  to settle or organize one's affairs 25.  safe as houses  Brit  very secure   26.   ( tr ) to provide with or serve as accommodation   27.  to give or receive shelter or lodging   28.   ( tr ) to contain or cover, esp in order to protect   29.   (Building) ( tr ) to fit (a piece of wood) into a mortise, joint, etc   30.   (Nautical Terms) ( tr )  nautical   a.  to secure or stow b.  to secure (a topmast) c.  to secure and stow (an anchor) 1.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) See  House of Commons 2.   (Stock Exchange)  informal   Brit  the Stock Exchange    1.   a building in which people live; residence.     2.   a household.     3.   ( often cap. ) a family, including ancestors and descendants:   the House of Hapsburg.      4.   a building, enclosure, or other construction for any of various purposes (usu. used in combination):   a clubhouse; a doghouse.      5.   a theater, concert hall, or auditorium.     6.   the audience of a theater or the like.     7.     a.   ( often cap. ) a legislative or official deliberative body, esp. one branch of a bicameral legislature:   the House of Representatives.      b.   the building in which such a body meets.     c.   a quorum of such a body.       8.   ( often cap. ) a commercial establishment; business firm:   a publishing house.      9.   a gambling casino or its management.     10.   a residential hall in a college or school; dormitory.     11.   the members or residents of any such residential hall.     12.    Informal.  a brothel; whorehouse.     13.   Also called    parish.    the area enclosed by a circle 12 or 14 ft. (3.7 or 4.2 m) in diameter at each end of a curling rink, having the tee in the center.    14.    Naut.  any enclosed shelter above the weather deck of a vessel:   bridge house.      15.    Astrol.  one of the 12 divisions of the celestial sphere, numbered counterclockwise from the point of the E horizon.     16.    house music.      17.   to put or receive into a house, dwelling, or shelter; lodge or harbor:   to house students in a dormitory; to house flood victims in a church.      18.   to provide with a place, as to work or study:   This floor houses our executive staff.      19.   to be a receptacle or repository for; hold; contain:   This casing houses the batteries.      20.   to take shelter; dwell.     21.   of or noting a house.     22.   suitable for or customarily used or kept in a house:   house paint; house pets.      23.   (of a product) made by or for a specific retailer and often sold under the store's own label.     24.   served by a restaurant as its customary brand:   the house wine.      1.    bring down the house,  to inspire a live audience to break into prolonged, unrestrained laughter or applause over one's performance.     2.    keep house,  to maintain a home; manage a household.     3.    on the house,  as a gift from the management; free. 