1.   also   i·kon   (ī′kŏn′) a.   An image; a representation. b.   A representation or picture of a sacred or sanctified Christian personage, traditionally used and venerated in the Eastern Church. 2.   An important and enduring symbol:  "The disposable lighter is an icon of the throwaway mentality that began to take shape in the years following World War II"   (Susan Freinkel). 3.   One who is the object of great attention and devotion; an idol:  "He is ... a pop icon designed and manufactured for the video generation"   (Harry F. Waters). 4.    Computers   A picture on a screen that represents a specific file, directory, window, option, or program. 1.   (Eastern Church (Greek & Russian Orthodox)) Also:  ikon  a representation of Christ, the Virgin Mary, or a saint, esp one painted in oil on a wooden panel, depicted in a traditional Byzantine style and venerated in the Eastern Church 2.  an image, picture, representation, etc 3.  a person or thing regarded as a symbol of a belief, nation, community, or cultural movement 4.  a person regarded as a sex symbol or as a symbol of the latest fashion trends 5.   (Computer Science) a pictorial representation of a facility available on a computer system, that enables the facility to be activated by means of a screen cursor rather than by a textual instruction    1.   a picture, image, or other representation.     2.   an image of Christ, a saint, etc., usu. painted on a wooden panel or done in mosaics and venerated as sacred in the Eastern Church.     3.   a sign or representation that stands for something by virtue of a resemblance or analogy to it; symbol:   an icon of womanhood.      4.   a person or thing that is revered or idolized:   a pop icon.      5.   a small graphic image on a computer screen representing a disk drive, a file, or a software command, as a wastebasket that can be used to delete a file.  1.  A religious painting (usually on wood or ivory) associated with Eastern churches. 2.  A symbol or picture that represents an item of software or hardware.