1.   Knowledge or facts learned, especially about a certain subject or event. See Synonyms at   knowledge . 2.   The act of informing or the condition of being informed; communication of knowledge:  Safety instructions are provided for the information of our passengers. 3.    Computers   Processed, stored, or transmitted data. 4.   A numerical measure of the uncertainty of an experimental outcome. 5.    Law   A formal accusation of a crime made by a public officer rather than by grand jury indictment in instances in which the offense, if a federal crime, is not a felony or in which the offense, if a state crime, is allowed prosecution in that manner rather than by indictment. 1.  knowledge acquired through experience or study 2.  knowledge of specific and timely events or situations; news 3.  the act of informing or the condition of being informed 4.  a.  an office, agency, etc, providing information b.  ( as modifier ):  information service .  5.   (Law)  a.  a charge or complaint made before justices of the peace, usually on oath, to institute summary criminal proceedings b.  a complaint filed on behalf of the Crown, usually by the attorney general 6.   (Computer Science)  computing   a.  the meaning given to data by the way in which it is interpreted b.   another word for  data 2 7.  too much information  informal  I don't want to hear any more    1.   knowledge communicated or received concerning a particular fact or circumstance.     2.   knowledge gained through study, communication, research, etc.; data.     3.   the act or fact of informing.     4.   a service or employee whose function is to provide information to the public.     5.    Law.    a.   a formal criminal charge brought by a prosecuting officer rather than through the indictment of a grand jury.     b.   the document containing the depositions of witnesses against one accused of a crime.       6.   (in information theory) an indication of the number of possible choices of messages, expressible as the value of some monotonic function of the number of choices.     7.   computer data at any stage of processing, as input, output, storage, or transmission.  1.  'information' Information  is facts that you learn or discover. You can get more  information  about our products on our website. Be Careful! Information  is an uncountable noun. Don't say ' an information  or ' informations '. You can say a  piece of information . I found out an interesting  piece of information . You  give  people information. She  gave  me some useful information. Be Careful! Use  give , not 'tell'. Don't say ' She told me some useful information .' You refer to information  about  something or  on  something. We don't have any information  about  him. I'm looking for information  on  the history of the town. 2.  'news' Don't use 'information' to refer to descriptions of recent events in newspapers or on television or radio. Use  news . Our town was in the  news  when it was visited by the Pope. The story was on the  news  this evening. See  news