1.   The solid ground of the earth. 2.  a.   Ground or soil:  tilled the land. b.   A topographically or functionally distinct tract:  desert land; prime building land. 3.  a.   A nation; a country. b.   The people of a nation, district, or region. c.    lands  Territorial possessions or property. 4.   Public or private landed property; real estate. 5.    Law   The solid material of the earth as well as the natural and manmade things attached to it and the rights and interests associated with it. 6.  a.   An agricultural or farming area:  wanted to buy a house on the land. b.   Farming considered as a way of life. 7.   An area or realm:  the land of make-believe; the land of television. 8.   The raised portion of a grooved surface, as on a phonograph record. 1.  a.   To bring to and unload on land:  land cargo. b.   To set (a vehicle) down on land or another surface:  land an airplane smoothly; land a seaplane on a lake. 2.    Informal   To cause to arrive in a place or condition:  Civil disobedience will land you in jail. 3.  a.   To catch and pull in (a fish):  landed a big catfish. b.    Informal   To win; secure:  land a big contract. 4.    Informal   To deliver:  landed a blow on his opponent's head. 1.  a.   To come to shore:  landed against the current with great difficulty. b.   To disembark:  landed at a crowded dock. 2.   To descend toward and settle onto the ground or another surface:  The helicopter has landed. 3.    Informal   To arrive in a place or condition:  landed at the theater too late for the opening curtain; landed in trouble for being late. 4.   To come to rest in a certain way or place:  slipped and landed on his shoulder. 1.   (Physical Geography) the solid part of the surface of the earth as distinct from seas, lakes, etc.  2.   (Physical Geography)  a.  ground, esp with reference to its use, quality, etc b.  ( in combination ):  land-grabber .  3.   (Agriculture) rural or agricultural areas as contrasted with urban ones 4.   (Agriculture) farming as an occupation or way of life 5.   (Law)  law   a.  any tract of ground capable of being owned as property, together with any buildings on it, extending above and below the surface b.  any hereditament, tenement, or other interest; realty 6.   (Human Geography)  a.  a country, region, or area b.  the people of a country, etc 7.  a realm, sphere, or domain 8.   (Economics)  economics  the factor of production consisting of all natural resources 9.   (Firearms, Gunnery, Ordnance & Artillery) the unindented part of a grooved surface, esp one of the ridges inside a rifle bore 10.  the unindented part of a grooved surface, esp one of the ridges inside a rifle bore 11.  how the land lies  the prevailing conditions or state of affairs 12.  to transfer (something) or go from a ship or boat to the shore:  land the cargo .  13.   (Nautical Terms) ( intr ) to come to or touch shore 14.  to come down or bring (something) down to earth after a flight or jump 15.  to come or bring to some point, condition, or state 16.   (Angling) ( tr )  angling  to retrieve (a hooked fish) from the water 17.   ( tr )  informal  to win or obtain:  to land a job .  18.   ( tr )  informal  to deliver (a blow)  (Biography)  Edwin Herbert.  1909–91, US inventor of the Polaroid Land camera  (Government, Politics & Diplomacy)  a.  any of the federal states of Germany b.  any of the provinces of Austria    1.   any part of the earth's surface, as a continent or an island, not covered by a body of water.     2.   an area of ground with reference to its nature or composition:   arable land.      3.   an area of ground with specific boundaries:   to buy land in Florida.      4.   rural or farming areas, as contrasted with urban areas:   They left the land for the city.      5.    Law.  any part of the earth's surface that can be owned as property, and everything annexed to it.     6.   a part of the earth's surface marked off by natural or political boundaries or the like; a region or country:   They came from many lands.      7.   the people of a region or country.     8.   a realm or domain:   the land of the living.      9.   a surface between furrows, as on the interior of a rifle barrel.     10.   to bring to or set on land.     11.   to bring into or cause to arrive in a particular place, position, or condition:   His behavior will land him in jail.      12.    Informal.  to catch or capture; win:   to land a job.      13.   to bring (a fish) onto land or into a boat, as with a hook or a net.     14.   to come to land or shore:   The boat lands at Cherbourg.      15.   to go or come ashore from a ship or boat.     16.   to alight upon or strike a surface, as the ground or a body of water:   The plane landed on time.      17.   to come to rest or arrive in a particular place, position, or condition (sometimes fol. by  up ):   to land in trouble; to land up 40 miles from home.  