1.   A device operated by a key, combination, or keycard and used, as on a door, for holding, closing, or securing. 2.   A section of a waterway, such as a canal, closed off with gates, in which vessels in transit are raised or lowered by raising or lowering the water level of that section. 3.   A mechanism in a firearm for exploding the charge. 4.   An interlocking or entanglement of elements or parts. 5.  a.    Sports   A hold in wrestling or self-defense that is secured on a part of an opponent's body. b.   A secure hold; control:  The distributor has a lock on most of the market. c.   A sure thing; a certainty:  His promotion is a lock. 1.  a.   To fasten the lock of:  close and lock a drawer. b.   To shut or make secure with or as if with locks:  locked the house. 2.   To confine or exclude by or as if by means of a lock:  locked the dog in for the night; locked the criminal up in a cell. 3.   To fix in place so that movement or escape is impossible; hold fast:  The ship was locked in the ice through the winter. She felt that she had become locked into a binding agreement. 4.  a.   To sight and follow (a moving target) automatically:  locked the enemy fighter in the gun sights. b.   To aim (a weapon or other device) at a moving target so as to follow it automatically:  "The pilot had locked his targeting radar on the slow-moving frigate"   (Ed Magnuson). 5.   To clasp or link firmly; intertwine or interlock:  locked arms and walked away. 6.   To bind in close struggle or battle:  The two dogs were locked in combat. 7.  a.   To equip (a waterway) with locks. b.   To pass (a vessel) through a lock. 8.   To invest (funds) in such a way that they cannot easily be converted into cash. 9.   To arrange or secure (an interest rate) for a loan. 10.    Computers   a.   To end the processing of (a magnetic tape or disk) in such a way as to deny access to its contents. b.   To protect (a file) from changes or deletion. 1.   To become fastened by or as if by means of a lock:  The door locks automatically when shut. 2.   To become entangled or jammed; interlock. 3.   To become rigid or immobile:  The mechanism tends to lock in cold weather. 4.   To pass through a lock or locks in a waterway. 1.   To place (a facility or the people in it) in a lockdown. 2.   To arrange or secure (something) so that it does not change or can't be undone. 1.  a.   A length or curl of hair; a tress. b.   often   locks  The hair of the head. 2.   A small wisp or tuft, as of wool or cotton. 1.   (Mechanical Engineering) a device fitted to a gate, door, drawer, lid, etc, to keep it firmly closed and often to prevent access by unauthorized persons 2.   (Mechanical Engineering) a similar device attached to a machine, vehicle, etc, to prevent use by unauthorized persons:  a steering lock .  3.   (Nautical Terms)  a.  a section of a canal or river that may be closed off by gates to control the water level and the raising and lowering of vessels that pass through it b.  ( as modifier ):  a lock gate .  4.  the jamming, fastening, or locking together of parts 5.   (Automotive Engineering)  Brit  the extent to which a vehicle's front wheels will turn to the right or left:  this car has a good lock .  6.   (Firearms, Gunnery, Ordnance & Artillery) a mechanism that detonates the charge of a gun 7.  informal   US   and   Canadian  a person or thing that is certain to win or to succeed:  she is a lock for the Academy Award .  8.  lock, stock, and barrel  completely; entirely 9.   (Wrestling) any wrestling hold in which a wrestler seizes a part of his opponent's body and twists it or otherwise exerts pressure upon it 10.   (Rugby)  rugby  Also called:  lock forward  either of two players who make up the second line of the scrum and apply weight to the forwards in the front line 11.   (General Engineering) a gas bubble in a hydraulic system or a liquid bubble in a pneumatic system that stops or interferes with the fluid flow in a pipe, capillary, etc:  an air lock .  12.  to fasten (a door, gate, etc) or (of a door, etc) to become fastened with a lock, bolt, etc, so as to prevent entry or exit 13.   ( tr ) to secure (a building) by locking all doors, windows, etc 14.  to fix or become fixed together securely or inextricably 15.  to become or cause to become rigid or immovable:  the front wheels of the car locked .  16.   ( when  tr, often passive ) to clasp or entangle (someone or each other) in a struggle or embrace 17.   (Nautical Terms) ( tr ) to furnish (a canal) with locks 18.   (Nautical Terms) ( tr ) to move (a vessel) through a system of locks 19.  lock horns  (esp of two equally matched opponents) to become engaged in argument or battle 20.  lock the stable door after the horse has bolted  lock the stable door after the horse has been stolen  to take precautions after harm has been done 1.  a strand, curl, or cluster of hair 2.  a tuft or wisp of wool, cotton, etc 3.   ( plural )  chiefly   literary  hair, esp when curly or fine    1.   a device for securing a door, gate, lid, drawer, or the like when closed, consisting of a bolt or system of bolts propelled and withdrawn by a mechanism operated by a key, dial, etc.     2.   any contrivance for fastening or securing something.     3.   (in a firearm) the mechanism that explodes the charge; gunlock.     4.   an enclosed chamber in a canal, dam, etc., with gates at each end, for raising or lowering vessels from one level to another by admitting or releasing water.     5.   an air lock or decompression chamber.     6.   complete and unchallenged control; an unbreakable hold:   to have a lock on the senatorial nomination.      7.    Slang.  someone or something certain of success; sure thing.     8.   any of various wrestling holds, esp. a hold secured on the arm, leg, or head.     9.   to fasten or secure (a door, window, building, etc.) by the operation of a lock or locks.     10.   to shut in by or as if by means of a lock, as for security or restraint.     11.   to make fast or immovable by or as if by a lock:   to lock the steering wheel on a car.      12.   to join or unite firmly by interlinking or intertwining:   to lock arms.      13.   to hold fast in an embrace.     14.   to move (a ship) by means of a lock or locks, as in a canal.     15.   to furnish with locks, as a canal.     16.   to become locked:   This door locks with a key.      17.   to become fastened, fixed, or interlocked:   gears that lock into place.      18.   to go or pass by means of a lock or locks, as a vessel.     19.    lock in,    a.   to commit to unalterably.     b.   (of an investor) to be unable or unwilling to sell or shift securities.       20.    lock on,  to track an object automatically by electronic means.     21.    lock out,    a.   to keep out by or as if by a lock.     b.   to subject (employees) to a lockout.       22.    lock up,    a.   to imprison for a crime.     b.   to make (type) immovable in a chase by securing the quoins.     c.   to fasten or secure with a lock or locks.     d.   to lock the doors of a house, automobile, etc.     e.   to fasten or fix firmly, as by engaging parts.       1.    lock horns,  to come into conflict; clash.     2.    lock, stock, and barrel,  with every part or item included; completely.     1.   a tress, curl, or ringlet of hair.     2.    locks,    a.   the hair of the head.     b.   short wool of inferior quality.   