1.  a.   A public gathering held for buying and selling goods or services:  a weekly flower market. b.   An open space or a building where goods or services are offered for sale by multiple sellers:  bought the chair at the downtown antiques market. c.   A store or shop that sells agricultural produce:  bought vegetables from the corner market. 2.  a.   A system of exchange in which prices are determined by the interaction of multiple, competing buyers and sellers:  an electronic market for trading pollution credits. b.   A similar system in which information or ideas are evaluated by multiple competing interests. 3.  a.   The buyers and sellers for a particular good or service or within a particular region:  recent college graduates entering the US labor market. b.   The business transacted between such sellers and buyers:  a slump in the housing market. c.   The price of a particular good or service as determined by supply and demand:  The gold market climbed for the fifth straight day. d.   The demand for a particular commodity:  a big market for denim; a growth market. 4.   A standing commitment to buy and sell a given security at stated prices:  a brokerage that made a market in the company's stock. 5.   A subdivision of a population considered as consumers:  targeting the teen market; a new product for the West Coast market. 6.   The market price:  executed the sale at market. 1.   To offer for sale:  merchants marketing their wares in the souk. 2.   To try to make (a product or service) appealing to particular groups of consumers; promote by marketing. 1.   To deal in a market; engage in buying or selling. 2.   To buy household supplies:  We marketed for a special Sunday dinner. 1.   Available for buying:  Many kinds of seasonal flowers are on the market. 2.   Up for sale:  They put the family business on the market. 1.   (Commerce)  a.  an event or occasion, usually held at regular intervals, at which people meet for the purpose of buying and selling merchandise b.  ( as modifier ):  market day .  2.   (Human Geography) a place, such as an open space in a town, at which a market is held 3.   (Commerce) a shop that sells a particular merchandise:  an antique market .  4.   (Commerce)  the market  business or trade in a commodity as specified:  the sugar market .  5.   (Commerce) the trading or selling opportunities provided by a particular group of people:  the foreign market .  6.   (Commerce) demand for a particular product or commodity:  there is no market for furs here .  7.   (Stock Exchange) See  stock market 8.   (Economics) See  market price ,  market value 9.   (Commerce)  at market  at the current price 10.  be in the market for  to wish to buy or acquire 11.   (Commerce)  on the market  available for purchase 12.   (Commerce) to speculate on a stock exchange 13.  to act aggressively or unscrupulously in one's own commercial interests 14.   (Commerce)  buyer's market  a market characterized by excess supply and thus favourable to buyers 15.   (Commerce)  seller's market  a market characterized by excess demand and thus favourable to sellers 16.   (Commerce) ( tr ) to offer or produce for sale 17.   (Commerce) ( intr ) to buy or deal in a market    1.   an open place or a building where buyers and sellers convene for the sale of goods.     2.   a store for the sale of food.     3.   a meeting of people for buying and selling.     4.   the people assembled.     5.   trade in a particular commodity:   the cotton market.      6.   demand for a commodity:   a dwindling market for leather goods.      7.   the body of existing or potential buyers for specific goods or services:   the health-food market.      8.   a region in which goods and services are bought or used:   the foreign market.      9.   an economic situation in which supply and demand interact through the activity of buyers and sellers:   market forces; a market economy.      10.    stock market.      11.   to deal commercially in a market.     12.   to buy provisions for the home.     13.   to offer in a market for sale.     14.   to sell.     1.    in the market for,  interested in buying.     2.    on the market,  for sale; available. 