1.  a.   A hole or tunnel dug into the earth from which ore or minerals are extracted. b.   A surface excavation where the topmost or exposed layer of earth is removed for extracting its ore or minerals. c.   The site of such a hole, tunnel, or excavation, including its surface buildings and equipment. 2.   A deposit of ore or minerals in the earth or on its surface. 3.   An abundant supply or source of something valuable:  This guidebook is a mine of information. 4.  a.   A tunnel dug under an enemy emplacement to destroy it by explosives, cause it to collapse, or gain access to it for an attack. b.   An explosive device used to destroy enemy personnel, shipping, fortifications, or equipment, often placed in a concealed position and designed to be detonated by contact, proximity, or a time fuse. 5.   A burrow or tunnel made by an insect, especially one made in a leaf by a leaf miner. 1.  a.   To extract (ore or minerals) from the earth. b.   To dig a mine in (the earth) to obtain ore or minerals. 2.  a.   To tunnel under (the earth or a surface feature). b.   To make (a tunnel) by digging. 3.   To lay explosive mines in or under. 4.   To attack, damage, or destroy by underhand means; subvert. 5.   To delve into and make use of; exploit:  mine the archives for detailed information. 1.  a.   To excavate the earth for the purpose of extracting ore or minerals. b.   To work in a mine. 2.   To dig a tunnel under the earth, especially under an enemy emplacement or fortification. 3.   To lay explosive mines. 1.  something or someone belonging to or associated with me:  mine is best .  2.  of mine  belonging to or associated with me  ( preceding a vowel ) an archaic word for  my 1 :  mine eyes ;  mine host .  1.   (Mining & Quarrying) a system of excavations made for the extraction of minerals, esp coal, ores, or precious stones 2.   (Mining & Quarrying) any deposit of ore or minerals 3.  a lucrative source or abundant supply:  she was a mine of information .  4.   (Firearms, Gunnery, Ordnance & Artillery) a device containing an explosive designed to destroy ships, vehicles, or personnel, usually laid beneath the ground or in water 5.   (Military) a tunnel or sap dug to undermine a fortification 6.   (Botany) a groove or tunnel made by certain insects, esp in a leaf 7.   (Mining & Quarrying) to dig into (the earth) for (minerals) 8.  to make (a hole, tunnel, etc) by digging or boring 9.   (Firearms, Gunnery, Ordnance & Artillery) to place explosive mines in position below the surface of (the sea or land) 10.   (Military) to undermine (a fortification) by digging mines or saps 11.   another word for  undermine    1.   a form of the possessive case of  I  used as a predicate adjective:   The yellow sweater is mine.      2.   that or those belonging to me:   Mine is on the left.      3.    Archaic.  my (used before a word beginning with a vowel or a silent  h,  or following a noun):   mine eyes; lady mine.      1.   an excavation made in the earth for the purpose of extracting mineral substances, as ore, coal, or precious stones.     2.   a natural deposit of such substances.     3.   an abundant source; store:   a mine of information.      4.   an explosive device floating on or moored just below the surface of the water, used for blowing up an enemy ship that strikes it or passes close by it.     5.   a similar device used on land against personnel or vehicles; land mine.     6.   an underground passage dug under an enemy's position so as to deposit explosives that will blow up the position.     7.   a passageway in the tissue of a leaf, made by certain insects.     8.   to dig in the earth for the purpose of extracting a mineral substance; make a mine.     9.   to extract a mineral substance from a mine.     10.   to make subterranean passages.     11.   to place or lay mines, as in military or naval operations.     12.   to dig in (earth) in order to extract a mineral substance.     13.   to extract (a mineral substance) from a mine.     14.   to use for extracting useful or valuable material from:   to mine every reference book available.      15.   to use, esp. a natural resource:   to mine the nation's forests.      16.   to make subterranean passages in or under; burrow.     17.   to make, as a passage or tunnel, by digging or burrowing.     18.   to dig away or remove the foundations of.     19.   to place or lay military or naval mines under.     20.   to remove (a natural resource) from its source without attempting to replenish it. 