1.   A structure, such as a building or sculpture, erected as a memorial. 2.   An inscribed marker placed at a grave; a tombstone. 3.   Something venerated for its enduring historic significance or association with a notable past person or thing:  the architectural monuments of ancient Rome; traditions that are monuments to an earlier era. 4.  a.   An outstanding enduring achievement:  a translation that is a monument of scholarship. b.   An exceptional example:  "Thousands of them wrote texts, some of them monuments of dullness"   (Robert L. Heilbroner). 5.   An object, such as a post or stone, fixed in the ground so as to mark a boundary or position. 1.   (Art Terms) an obelisk, statue, building, etc, erected in commemoration of a person or event or in celebration of something 2.   (Architecture) a notable building or site, esp one preserved as public property 3.  a tomb or tombstone 4.   (Literary & Literary Critical Terms) a literary or artistic work regarded as commemorative of its creator or a particular period 5.   (Art Terms) a literary or artistic work regarded as commemorative of its creator or a particular period 6.  US  a boundary marker 7.  an exceptional example:  his lecture was a monument of tedium .  8.   (Art Terms) an obsolete word for  statue  (Named Buildings)  the Monument  a tall columnar building designed (1671) by Sir Christopher Wren to commemorate the Fire of London (1666), which destroyed a large part of the medieval city    1.   something erected in memory of a person, event, etc., as a building, pillar, or statue.     2.   any building, megalith, etc., surviving from a past age, and regarded as of historical or archaeological importance.     3.   any enduring evidence or notable example of something:   a monument to human ingenuity.      4.   something written, esp. a legal document or a tribute to a person.     5.    national monument.      6.   an object, as a stone shaft, to mark a boundary or a survey station.     7.   a person considered as being of heroic proportions:   a monument in her lifetime.      8.     a.    Obs.  a tomb; sepulcher.     b.   a statue.   