1.  a.   A place in which business, clerical, or professional activities are conducted. b.   The administrative personnel, executives, or staff working in such a place:  Can your office handle that amount of work? 2.  a.   A subdivision of a governmental department:  the US Patent Office. b.   A major executive division of a government:  the British Home Office. 3.  a.   A position of authority, duty, or trust given to a person, as in a government or corporation:  the office of vice president. b.   Public position:  Is she inclined to seek office? 4.  a.   A duty or function assigned to or assumed by someone:  Our host performed the office of tour guide.  See Synonyms at   function . b.   often   offices  A service or beneficial act done for another:  Through her kind offices we were given a room with a view. 5.    Ecclesiastical   A ceremony, rite, or service, usually prescribed by liturgy, especially: a.   The canonical hours. b.   A prayer service in the Anglican Church, such as Morning or Evening Prayer. c.   A ceremony, rite, or service for a special purpose, especially the Office of the Dead. 6.    offices   Chiefly British   The parts of a house, such as the laundry and kitchen, in which servants carry out household work. 1.  a.  a room or set of rooms in which business, professional duties, clerical work, etc, are carried out b.  ( as modifier ):  office furniture ;  an office boy .  2.   ( often plural ) the building or buildings in which the work of an organization, such as a business or government department, is carried out 3.  a commercial or professional business:  the architect's office approved the plans .  4.  the group of persons working in an office:  it was a happy office until she came .  5.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) ( capital when part of a name ) (in Britain) a department of the national government:  the Home Office .  6.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) ( capital when part of a name ) (in the US) a.  a governmental agency, esp of the Federal government b.  a subdivision of such an agency or of a department:  Office of Science and Technology .  7.  a.  a position of trust, responsibility, or duty, esp in a government or organization:  the office of president ;  to seek office .  b.  ( in combination ):  an office-holder .  8.  duty or function:  the office of an administrator .  9.   ( often plural ) a minor task or service:  domestic offices .  10.   ( often plural ) an action performed for another, usually a beneficial action:  through his good offices .  11.   (Theatre) a place where tickets, information, etc, can be obtained:  a ticket office .  12.   (Ecclesiastical Terms)  Christianity   a.   ( often plural ) a ceremony or service, prescribed by ecclesiastical authorities, esp one for the dead b.  the order or form of these c.  RC Church  the official daily service d.   short for  divine office 13.   ( plural ) the parts of a house or estate where work is done, goods are stored, etc 14.   ( usually plural )  euphemistic   Brit  a lavatory (esp in the phrase  usual offices ) 15.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy)  in office  (of a government) in power 16.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy)  out of office  (of a government) out of power 17.  the office  slang  a hint or signal    1.   a place where business is conducted.     2.   a room assigned to a specific person or a group of persons in such a place.     3.   a business or professional organization:   working in an architect's office.      4.   the staff that works in a place of business.     5.   a position of duty, trust, or authority:   the office of president.      6.   employment or position as an official:   to seek office.      7.   the duty, function, or part of a particular person or agency; responsibility; charge.     8.   ( usu. cap. ) a government agency, or a division of a government department:   Office of Community Services.      9.   ( usu. cap. ) a department of the national government in Great Britain:   the Foreign Office.      10.   Often,  offices.  something, whether good or bad, done or said for or to another:   the good offices of a friend.      11.     a.   the prescribed order or form for a service of the church or for devotional use.     b.   the services so prescribed.     c.    Divine Office.      d.   a ceremony or rite, esp. for the dead.       12.    offices,   Chiefly Brit.  the parts of a house, as the kitchen, pantry, or laundry, devoted mainly to household work. 