1.   An area of land set aside for public use, as: a.   A piece of land with few or no buildings within or adjoining a town, maintained for recreational and ornamental purposes. b.   A landscaped city square. c.   A large tract of rural land kept in its natural state and usually reserved for the enjoyment and recreation of visitors. 2.   A broad, fairly level valley between mountain ranges:  the high parks of the Rocky Mountains. 3.   A tract of land attached to a country house, especially when including extensive gardens, woods, pastures, or a game preserve. 4.    Sports   A stadium or an enclosed playing field:  a baseball park. 5.  a.   An area where military vehicles or artillery are stored and serviced. b.   The materiel kept in such an area. 6.   An area in or near a town designed and usually zoned for a certain purpose:  a commercial park. 7.   A position in an automatic transmission that disengages the gears and sets the brake so the vehicle cannot move:  put the car in park and turned off the engine. 1.   To put or leave (a vehicle) for a time in a certain location. 2.    Aerospace   To place (a spacecraft or satellite) in a usually temporary orbit. 3.    Informal   To place or leave temporarily:  parked the baby with neighbors; parking cash in a local bank account. 4.   To assemble (artillery or other equipment) in a military park. 1.   To park a motor vehicle:  pulled over and parked next to the curb. 2.    Slang   To engage in kissing and caressing in a vehicle stopped in a secluded spot. 1.   (Human Geography) a large area of land preserved in a natural state for recreational use by the public. See also  national park 2.   (Human Geography) a piece of open land in a town with public amenities 3.   (Human Geography)  NZ  an area, esp of mountain country, reserved for recreational purposes 4.   (Human Geography) a large area of land forming a private estate 5.   (Law)  English law  an enclosed tract of land where wild beasts are protected, acquired by a subject by royal grant or prescription. Compare  forest 5 6.   (Human Geography) an area designed and landscaped to accommodate a group of related enterprises, businesses, research establishments, etc:  science park .  7.  US   and   Canadian  See  amusement park 8.   (Automotive Engineering)  US   and   Canadian   and   NZ  See  car park 9.   (General Sporting Terms)  US   and   Canadian  a playing field or sports stadium 10.   (Soccer)  the park  informal   Brit  a soccer pitch 11.   (Automotive Engineering) a gear selector position on the automatic transmission of a motor vehicle that acts as a parking brake 12.   (Military) the area in which the equipment and supplies of a military formation are assembled 13.   (Physical Geography) a high valley surrounded by mountains in the western US 14.   (Automotive Engineering) to stop and leave (a vehicle) temporarily 15.   (Automotive Engineering) to manoeuvre (a motor vehicle) into a space for it to be left:  try to park without hitting the kerb .  16.   (Stock Exchange)  stock exchange  to register (securities) in the name of another or of nominees in order to conceal their real ownership 17.   ( tr )  informal  to leave or put somewhere:  park yourself in front of the fire .  18.   (Military) ( intr )  military  to arrange equipment in a park 19.   ( tr ) to enclose in or as a park 1.   (Biography)  Mungo  (ˈmʌŋɡəʊ). 1771–1806, Scottish explorer. He led two expeditions (1795–97; 1805–06) to trace the course of the Niger in Africa. He was drowned during the second expedition 2.   (Biography)  Nick,  full name  Nicholas Wulstan Park.  born 1958, British animator and film director; his films include  A Grand Day Out  (1992), which introduced the characters Wallace and Gromit, and the feature-length  Chicken Run  (2000) 3.   (Biography)  Chung Hee.  (ˈtʃʊŋ ˈhiː). 1917–79, South Korean politician; president of the Republic of Korea (1963–79); assassinated    1.   a public area of land, usu. in a natural state, having facilities for recreation.     2.   an enclosed area or a stadium used for sports.     3.   the grounds of a country house.     4.    Western U.S.  a broad valley in a mountainous region.     5.   a space where vehicles, esp. automobiles, may be assembled or stationed.     6.    amusement park.      7.    theme park.      8.    industrial park.      9.   a setting in an automatic transmission in which the transmission is in neutral and the brake is engaged.     10.   to leave (a vehicle) in a certain place for a period of time.     11.    Informal.  to put, leave, or settle.     12.   to assemble (equipment or supplies) in a military park.     13.   to place (a satellite) in orbit.     14.   to park a vehicle. 