1.   A trodden track or way. 2.   A road, way, or track made for a particular purpose:  a bicycle path. 3.   The route or course along which something travels or moves:  the path of a hurricane. 4.   A course of action or conduct:  the path of righteousness. 5.    Computers   a.   A sequence of commands or a link between points that is needed to reach a particular goal. b.   A pathname. 1.  a road or way, esp a narrow trodden track 2.  a surfaced walk, as through a garden 3.  the course or direction in which something moves:  the path of a whirlwind .  4.  a course of conduct:  the path of virtue .  5.   (Computer Science)  computing  the directions for reaching a particular file or directory, as traced hierarchically through each of the parent directories usually from the root; the file or directory and all parent directories are separated from one another in the path by slashes    1.   a way beaten or trodden by the feet of persons or animals.     2.   a narrow walk or way:   a bicycle path.      3.   a route or course along which something moves:   the path of a hurricane.      4.   a course of action, conduct, or procedure:   the path of righteousness.      5.   (in some computer operating systems)   a.   a listing of the route through directories and subdirectories that locates and thereby names a specific file or program on a disk drive.     b.   the currently active list of all such routes that tells the operating system where to find programs, enabling a user to run them from other directories.       1.   pathological.     2.   pathology.  1.  'lane' A  lane  is a narrow road which can be used by vehicles, especially in the country. A  lane  is also a part of a main road which is marked by the edge of the road and painted line, or by two painted lines. The lorry was travelling at 20mph in the slow  lane. 2.  'path' You do not use  lane  to refer to a strip of ground which people walk along and which vehicles cannot use. The word you use is  path  or  footpath. Can a landowner keep a bull in a field crossed by a public  footpath?