1.  a.   A large, usually continuous segment of a surface or space:  the upper regions of the atmosphere. b.   A portion of the earth's surface distinguished from others by some characteristic:  the coastal region; the region of storm damage. c.   A bioregion. d.   A political district or unit, often with its adjacent lands:  the Osaka region. 2.   An area of the body having natural or arbitrarily assigned boundaries:  the abdominal region. 3.   An area of interest or activity; a sphere:  the region of gender studies. 4.   An approximate degree or amount:  costs in the region of one billion dollars. 1.  any large, indefinite, and continuous part of a surface or space 2.   (Physical Geography) an area considered as a unit for geographical, functional, social, or cultural reasons 3.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) an administrative division of a country:  Tuscany is one of the regions of the Italian Republic .  4.  a realm or sphere of activity or interest 5.  range, area, or scope:  in what region is the price likely to be? .  6.   (Pathology) a division or part of the boday:  the lumbar region .  7.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) (in Scotland from 1975 until 1996) any of the nine territorial divisions into which the mainland of Scotland was divided for purposes of local government; replaced in 1996 by council areas. See also  islands council    1.   an extensive, continuous part of a surface, space, or body:   a region of the earth.      2.   Usu.,  regions.  the vast or indefinite entirety of a space or area, or something compared to one:   the regions of the mind.      3.   a part of the earth's surface of considerable and usu. indefinite extent:   a tropical region.      4.   a district without respect to boundaries or extent:   an industrial region.      5.   a large, indefinite area or range of something specified:   a region of authority.      6.   an area of interest, activity, pursuit, etc.; field.     7.   an administrative division of a country, territory, or city.     8.   a major faunal area of the earth's surface, sometimes one regarded as a division of a larger area.     9.   a division or part of the body:   the abdominal region.  