1.   often   ruins a.   The state of being physically destroyed, collapsed, or decayed:  The castle fell into ruin. b.   The state of being extensively harmed or damaged:  Our vacation plans are in ruins. c.   Poverty of bankruptcy:  Their decision brought the bank to ruin. 2.  a.   often   ruins  A destroyed, collapsed, or decayed building or other physical entity:  the ruins of the old mill. b.   One that has been extensively damaged or harmed:  He is a ruin of his former self. 3.   A cause of destruction or irreparable harm or loss:  Gambling will be his ruin. 1.   To cause (a building, for example) to be in a destroyed, collapsed, or decayed state. 2.   To harm or damage irreparably:  A bad diet ruined his health. 3.   To reduce to poverty or bankruptcy:  Bad loans ruined the banker. 1.  a destroyed or decayed building or town 2.  the state or condition of being destroyed or decayed 3.  loss of wealth, position, etc, or something that causes such loss; downfall 4.  something that is severely damaged:  his life was a ruin .  5.  a person who has suffered a downfall, bankruptcy, etc 6.  loss of value or usefulness 7.  archaic  loss of her virginity by a woman outside marriage 8.   ( tr ) to bring to ruin; destroy 9.   ( tr ) to injure or spoil:  the town has been ruined with tower blocks .  10.   ( intr )  archaic   or   poetic  to fall into ruins; collapse    1.    ruins,  the remains of a building, city, etc., that has been destroyed or is decaying.     2.   a destroyed or decayed building, town, etc.     3.   a fallen, wrecked, or decayed condition:   The house fell into ruin.      4.   the downfall, decay, or destruction of anything.     5.   the complete loss of health, means, position, hope, or the like.     6.   something that causes a downfall or destruction; blight:   Alcohol was my ruin.      7.   the downfall of a person; undoing.     8.   a person as the wreck of his or her former self.     9.   the act of causing destruction or a downfall.     10.   to reduce to ruin; devastate.     11.   to bring to financial ruin; bankrupt.     12.   to injure (a thing) irretrievably.     13.   to deflower (a woman) by seduction.     14.   to fall into ruins.     15.   to come to ruin.  1.  'destroy' If you  destroy  something, you cause so much damage to it that it can no longer be used or it no longer exists. Several apartment buildings  were destroyed  by the fire. I  destroyed  the letter as soon as I had read it. 2.  'spoil' and 'ruin' If someone or something prevents an experience from being enjoyable, don't say that they 'destroy' the experience. You say that they  spoil  it or  ruin  it. The evening  had been spoiled  by their argument. The weather  had  completely  ruined  their day.