1.   An institution for the instruction of children or people under college age. 2.   An institution for instruction in a skill or business:  a secretarial school; a karate school. 3.  a.   A college or university. b.   An institution within or associated with a college or university that gives instruction in a specialized field and recommends candidates for degrees. c.   A division of an educational institution constituting several grades or classes:  advanced to the upper school. d.   The student body of an educational institution. e.   The building or group of buildings housing an educational institution. 4.   The process of being educated formally, especially education constituting a planned series of courses over a number of years:  The children were put to school at home. What do you plan to do when you finish school? 5.   A session of instruction:  School will start in three weeks. He had to stay after school today. 6.  a.   A group of people, especially philosophers, artists, or writers, whose thought, work, or style demonstrates a common origin or influence or unifying belief:  the school of Aristotle; the Venetian school of painters. b.   A group of people distinguished by similar manners, customs, or opinions:  aristocrats of the old school. 7.   Close-order drill instructions or exercises for military units or personnel. 8.    Australian   A group of people gathered together for gambling. 1.   To educate in or as if in a school. 2.   To train or discipline:  She is well schooled in literature.  See Synonyms at   teach . 3.    Slang   To defeat or put down decisively, especially in a humiliating manner:  Our team got schooled by the worst team in the division. 1.   (Education)  a.  an institution or building at which children and young people usually under 19 receive education b.  ( as modifier ):  school bus ;  school day .  c.  ( in combination ):  schoolroom ;  schoolwork .  2.   (Education) any educational institution or building 3.   (Education) a faculty, institution, or department specializing in a particular subject:  a law school .  4.   (Education) the staff and pupils of a school 5.   (Education) the period of instruction in a school or one session of this:  he stayed after school to do extra work .  6.   (Education) meetings held occasionally for members of a profession, etc 7.  a place or sphere of activity that instructs:  the school of hard knocks .  8.  a body of people or pupils adhering to a certain set of principles, doctrines, or methods 9.   (Art Terms) a group of artists, writers, etc, linked by the same style, teachers, or aims:  the Venetian school of painting .  10.  a style of life:  a gentleman of the old school .  11.  informal  a group assembled for a common purpose, esp gambling or drinking 12.  to train or educate in or as in a school 13.  to discipline or control 14.   an archaic word for  reprimand  (Zoology) a group of porpoises or similar aquatic animals that swim together  (Zoology) ( intr ) to form such a group    1.   an institution for teaching persons under college age.     2.   a college or university.     3.   an institution or academic department for instruction in a particular skill or field.     4.   a systematic program of studies:   summer school.      5.   the activity of teaching or of learning under instruction:   No school today!      6.   the body of persons belonging to an educational institution:   The whole school applauded.      7.   a building, room, etc., housing an academic department or institution.     8.   any place, situation, etc., that instructs or indoctrinates.     9.   the body of pupils or followers of a master, system, method, etc.:   the Platonic school of philosophy.      10.     a.   a group of artists whose works reflect a common conceptual, regional, or personal influence.     b.   the art and artists of a geographical location considered independently of stylistic similarity.       11.   any group of persons having common attitudes or beliefs.     12.   of or connected with a school or schools.     13.   to educate in or as if in a school; teach; train.     14.    Archaic.  to reprimand.     1.   a large number of fish, porpoises, whales, or the like, feeding or migrating together.     2.   to form into, or go in, a school, as fish.  1.  used as countable nouns In both British and American English, a  school  is a place where children are educated, and a  university  is a place where students study for degrees. The village had a church and a  school . Heidelberg is a very old  university . 2.  used as uncountable nouns In American English,  school  (without 'a' or 'the') is used to refer to both schools and universities. If someone is attending a school or university, Americans say that they are  in school . All the children were  in school . She is doing well  in school . When speakers of American English ask an adult 'Where did you go to school?', they mean 'What college or university did you study in?'. In British English,  school  refers only to schools for children. If someone is attending a school, British speakers say they are  at school . If they are attending a university, British speakers say they are  at university . I was  at school  with Joty, but I haven't seen her since I was 16. She is studying medicine  at university . See  student