1.  a.   To rub hard in order to clean:  scrubbed the floor. b.   To remove (dirt or stains) by hard rubbing. 2.   To remove impurities from (a gas) chemically. 3.    Computers   a.   To maintain the integrity of by finding and correcting errors:  software that automatically scrubs stored data. b.   To erase in such a way as to render unrecoverable:  scrubbed the laptop's hard drive to destroy incriminating evidence. 4.    Slang   To cancel or abandon; drop:  We had to scrub our plans for vacation. 1.   The act or an instance of scrubbing. 2.   A preparation or product used in scrubbing. 3.    scrubs  The articles of clothing that make up a scrub suit. 1.   Vegetation consisting chiefly of shrubs and small trees. 2.   An area covered with such vegetation; shrubland. 3.   A domestic animal that is feral or not purebred. 4.    Slang   A contemptible or incompetent person. 5.    Sports   A player not on the varsity or first team. 1.  to rub (a surface) hard, with or as if with a brush, soap, and water, in order to clean it 2.  to remove (dirt), esp by rubbing with a brush and water 3.   (Surgery) (foll by:  up ) (of a surgeon) to wash the hands and arms thoroughly before operating 4.   (Chemical Engineering) ( tr ) to purify (a vapour or gas) by removing impurities 5.   ( tr )  informal  to delete or cancel 6.   (Horse Racing) ( intr )  horse racing   slang  (of jockeys) to urge a horse forwards by moving the arms and whip rhythmically forwards and backwards alongside its neck the act of or an instance of scrubbing 1.   (Physical Geography)  a.  vegetation consisting of stunted trees, bushes, and other plants growing in an arid area b.  ( as modifier ):  scrub vegetation .  2.   (Physical Geography) an area of arid land covered with such vegetation 3.   (Breeds)  a.  an animal of inferior breeding or condition b.  ( as modifier ):  a scrub bull .  4.  a small or insignificant person 5.  anything stunted or inferior 6.   (General Sporting Terms)  sport   US   and   Canadian  a player not in the first team 7.  the scrub  informal   Austral  a remote place, esp one where contact with people can be avoided 8.  small, stunted, or inferior 9.   (General Sporting Terms)  sport   a.  (of a player) not in the first team b.  (of a team) composed of such players c.  (of a contest) between scratch or incomplete teams    1.   to rub hard with a brush, cloth, etc., in washing.     2.   to remove (dirt, grime, etc.) from something by hard rubbing while washing.     3.   to remove (impurities or undesirable components) from a gas by chemical means.     4.    Informal.  to cancel or postpone, as a rocket launch.     5.   to cleanse something by hard rubbing.     6.   to cleanse one's hands and arms as a preparation for performing surgery (often fol. by  up ).     7.   an act or instance of scrubbing.     8.   a cosmetic preparation used for scrubbing.     1.   low trees or shrubs collectively.     2.   a large area covered with low trees and shrubs, as the Australian bush.     3.   a domestic animal of mixed or inferior breeding; mongrel.     4.   anything undersized or inferior.     5.    Sports.  a player who is not on the regular, or first-string, team.     6.   small or stunted.     7.   inferior or insignificant. 