1.   To move upward or forward in a single quick motion or a series of such motions; leap:  The goat sprang over the log. 2.   To move suddenly, especially because of being resilient or moved by a spring:  I let the branch spring forward. The door sprang shut. 3.   To start doing something suddenly:  The firefighters sprang into action. 4.  a.   To appear or come into being quickly:  New businesses are springing up rapidly. b.   To issue or emerge suddenly:  A cry sprang from her lips. A thought springs to mind. c.   To arise from a source; develop:  Their frustration springs from a misunderstanding.  See Synonyms at   stem 1 . 5.   To extend or curve upward, as a rafter or arch. 6.   To become warped, split, or cracked. Used of wood. 7.   To move out of place; come loose, as parts of a mechanism. 8.    Slang   To buy something or pay an expense:  He offered to spring for the dinner. 1.   To cause to leap, dart, or come forth suddenly:  The hound sprang a quail. 2.   To release from a checked or inoperative position:  spring a trap. 3.   To present or disclose unexpectedly or suddenly:  "He sprung on the world this novel approach to political journalism"   (Curtis Wilkie). 4.    Slang   To cause to be released from prison or other confinement. 5.  a.   To cause to warp, split, or crack, as a mast. b.   To have (a mast, for example) warp, split, or crack. 1.   An elastic device, such as a coil of wire, that regains its original shape after being compressed or extended. 2.  a.   Elasticity; resilience:  a mattress with a lot of spring. b.   Energetic bounce:  a spring to one's step. 3.   The act or an instance of jumping or leaping. 4.   A usually rapid return to normal shape after removal of stress; recoil:  the spring of a bow. 5.   A small stream of water flowing naturally from the earth. 6.   A source, beginning, or motive:  Her acquaintance was a spring of happiness. 7.  a.   The season of the year between winter and summer, during which the weather becomes warmer and plants revive, extending in the Northern Hemisphere from the vernal equinox to the summer solstice and popularly considered to include the months of March, April, and May. In the Southern Hemisphere austral spring includes September, October, and November. b.   A time of growth and renewal. 8.   A warping, bending, or cracking, as that caused by excessive force. 9.    Architecture   The point at which an arch or vault rises from its support. 1.   Of or acting like a spring; resilient. 2.   Having or supported by springs:  a spring mattress. 3.  a.   Relating to or occurring in spring:  spring showers; spring planting. b.   Grown during the season of spring:  spring crops. 1.  to move or cause to move suddenly upwards or forward in a single motion 2.  to release or be released from a forced position by elastic force:  the bolt sprang back .  3.   ( tr ) to leap or jump over 4.   ( intr ) to come, issue, or arise suddenly 5.   (Mechanical Engineering) ( intr ) (of a part of a mechanism, etc) to jump out of place 6.  to make (wood, etc) warped or split or (of wood, etc) to become warped or split 7.  to happen or cause to happen unexpectedly:  to spring a surprise ;  the boat sprung a leak .  8.   ( intr ) to develop or originate:  the idea sprang from a chance meeting .  9.   (usually foll by:  from ) to be descended:  he sprang from peasant stock .  10.   (often foll by:  up ) to come into being or appear suddenly:  factories springing up .  11.   (Hunting) ( tr ) (of a gun dog) to rouse (game) from cover 12.   (Hunting) ( intr ) (of game or quarry) to start or rise suddenly from cover 13.   ( intr ) to appear to have a strong upward movement:  the beam springs away from the pillar .  14.   (Firearms, Gunnery, Ordnance & Artillery) to explode (a mine) or (of a mine) to explode 15.   ( tr ) to provide with a spring or springs 16.   ( tr )  informal  to arrange the escape of (someone) from prison 17.   ( intr )  archaic   or   poetic  (of daylight or dawn) to begin to appear 18.  the act or an instance of springing 19.  a leap, jump, or bound 20.  a.  the quality of resilience; elasticity b.  ( as modifier ):  spring steel .  21.  the act or an instance of moving rapidly back from a position of tension 22.   (Physical Geography)  a.  a natural outflow of ground water, as forming the source of a stream b.  ( as modifier ):  spring water .  23.   (Mechanical Engineering)  a.  a device, such as a coil or strip of steel, that stores potential energy when it is compressed, stretched, or bent and releases it when the restraining force is removed b.  ( as modifier ):  a spring mattress .  24.  a structural defect such as a warp or bend 25.   (Physical Geography)  a.   ( sometimes capital ) the season of the year between winter and summer, astronomically from the March equinox to the June solstice in the N hemisphere and from the September equinox to the December solstice in the S hemisphere b.  ( as modifier ):  spring showers . vernal 26.  the earliest or freshest time of something 27.  a source or origin 28.   (Cricket) one of a set of strips of rubber, steel, etc, running down the inside of the handle of a cricket bat, hockey stick, etc 29.   (Hockey (Field & Ice)) one of a set of strips of rubber, steel, etc, running down the inside of the handle of a cricket bat, hockey stick, etc 30.   (Nautical Terms)  nautical  Also called:  spring line  a mooring line, usually one of a pair that cross amidships 31.   (Zoology) a flock of teal 32.   (Architecture)  architect  another name for  springing    1.   to rise, leap, or move suddenly and swiftly:   a tiger about to spring.      2.   to be released suddenly from a constrained position:   The door sprang open.      3.   to issue forth suddenly or forcefully:   Oil sprang from the well.      4.   to come into being; arise:   Industries sprang up in the suburbs.      5.   to have as one's birth or lineage:   to spring from seafaring folk.      6.   to extend upward.     7.   to take an upward course or curve from a point of support, as an arch.     8.   to occur suddenly:   An objection sprang to mind.      9.   to become bent or warped.     10.   to cause to spring.     11.   to cause the sudden operation of:   to spring a trap.      12.   to cause to work loose, warp, or split:   Moisture sprang the board from the fence.      13.   to undergo the development of:   sprang a leak.      14.   to bend by force.     15.   to produce by surprise:   to spring a joke.      16.   to leap over.     17.    Slang.  to secure the release of from confinement.     18.    spring for,   Informal.  to pay for; treat someone to.     19.   an act of springing; a sudden leap or bound.     20.   an elastic quality:   a spring in his walk.      21.   a structural defect caused by a warp or crack.     22.   an issue of water from the ground.     23.   the place of such an issue:   mineral springs.      24.   a source; fountainhead:   a spring of inspiration.      25.   an elastic contrivance or body, as a strip or wire of steel coiled spirally, that recovers its shape after being compressed, bent, or stretched.     26.   the season between winter and summer, marked by the budding and growth of plants and the onset of warmer weather: in the Northern Hemisphere from the March equinox to the June solstice; in the Southern Hemisphere from the September equinox to the December solstice.     27.   the first stage and freshest period:   the spring of life.      28.   Also called    springing.      a.   the point at which an arch or dome rises from its support.     b.   the rise or the angle of the rise of an arch.    1.   A device, such as a coil of wire, that returns to its original shape after being compressed or stretched. Because of their ability to return to their original shape, springs are used to store energy, as in mechanical clocks, and to absorb or lessen energy, as in the suspension system of vehicles. 2.   A small stream of water flowing naturally from the earth. 3.   The season of the year between winter and summer, during which the weather becomes warmer and plants revive. In the Northern Hemisphere, it extends from the vernal equinox to the summer solstice.