1.  a.   A condition or mode of being, as with regard to circumstances:  The office was in a state of confusion. b.   A condition of being in a stage or form, as of structure, growth, or development:  the fetal state. c.   A mental or emotional condition:  in a manic state. d.    Informal   A condition of excitement or distress:  was in a state over going to the prom. e.   Social position or rank. 2.    Physics   The condition of a physical system with regard to phase, form, composition, or structure:  Ice is the solid state of water. 3.   Ceremony; pomp:  foreign leaders dining in state at the White House. 4.  a.   The supreme public power within a sovereign political entity:  the state intervening in the economy. b.   The sphere of supreme civil power within a given polity:  matters of state. c.   A specific kind of government:  the socialist state. d.   A body politic, especially one constituting a nation:  the states of Eastern Europe. e.   One of the more or less internally autonomous territorial and political units composing a federation under a sovereign government:  the 48 contiguous states of the Union. 1.   Of or relating to a body politic or to an internally autonomous territorial or political unit constituting a federation under one government:  a monarch dealing with state matters; the department that handles state security. 2.   Owned and operated by a state:  state universities. 1.  the condition of a person, thing, etc, with regard to main attributes 2.  the structure, form, or constitution of something:  a solid state .  3.  any mode of existence 4.  position in life or society; estate 5.  ceremonious style, as befitting wealth or dignity:  to live in state .  6.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) a sovereign political power or community 7.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) the territory occupied by such a community 8.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) the sphere of power in such a community:  affairs of state .  9.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) ( often capital ) one of a number of areas or communities having their own governments and forming a federation under a sovereign government, as in the US 10.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) ( often capital ) the body politic of a particular sovereign power, esp as contrasted with a rival authority such as the Church 11.  obsolete  a class or order; estate 12.  informal  a nervous, upset, or excited condition (esp in the phrase  in a state ) 13.  lie in state  (of a body) to be placed on public view before burial 14.  state of affairs  a situation; present circumstances or condition 15.  state of play  the current situation 16.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) controlled or financed by a state:  state university .  17.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) of, relating to, or concerning the State:  State trial .  18.  involving ceremony or concerned with a ceremonious occasion:  state visit .  19.  to articulate in words; utter 20.  to declare formally or publicly:  to state one's innocence .  21.  to resolve    1.   the condition of a person or thing, as with respect to circumstances or attributes:   the state of one's health.      2.   the condition of matter with respect to structure, form, phase, or the like:   water in a gaseous state.      3.   status, rank, or position in life; station.     4.   the formal or elaborate style befitting a person of wealth and high rank:   to travel in state.      5.   a particular condition of mind or feeling:   an excited state.      6.   an abnormally tense, nervous, or perturbed condition:   in a state over losing one's job.      7.   a politically unified people occupying a definite territory; nation.     8.   the territory or authority of a state.     9.   ( sometimes cap. ) any of the bodies politic or political units that together make up a federal union, as in the United States of America.     10.   the body politic as organized for civil rule and government:   separation of church and state.      11.   the sphere of the highest civil authority and administration:   affairs of state.      12.    the States,  the United States (usu. used outside its borders).     13.   of or pertaining to the central civil government or authority.     14.   of, maintained by, or under the authority of a unit of a federal union:  a state highway.      15.   characterized by, attended with, or involving ceremony:   a state dinner.      16.   used on or reserved for occasions of ceremony.     17.   to declare definitely or specifically.     18.   to set forth formally in speech or writing.     19.   to set forth in proper or definite form:   to state a problem.      20.   to say.     21.   to fix or settle, as by authority.  1.  Any of the images through which a print may pass as the artist alters the design, as frequently occurs in the work of Rembrandt. If no changes are made, this may be described as the only state.” Art historians may dispute whether differences are deliberate or merely caused by wear on the plate. 2.  An internally autonomous territorial and political unit.