1.  a.   A flow of water in a channel or bed, as a brook, rivulet, or small river. b.   A steady current in such a flow of water. 2.   A steady current of a fluid. 3.   A large amount or number moving or occurring in steady succession:  a stream of commuters; a stream of insults.  See Synonyms at   flow . 4.   A trend, course, or drift, as of opinion, thought, or history. 5.   A beam or ray of light. 6.    Chiefly British   A course of study to which students are tracked. 7.    Computers   A steady flow of data. 1.   To flow in a stream or current. 2.   To pour forth or give off a stream; flow:  My eyes were streaming with tears. 3.   To move or arrive in large numbers; pour:  Traffic was streaming by. Fan mail streamed in. 4.   To extend, wave, or float outward:  The banner streamed in the breeze. 5.  a.   To leave a continuous trail of light. b.   To give forth a continuous stream of light rays or beams; shine. 1.   To emit, discharge, or exude (a body fluid, for example). 2.    Computers   To transmit (audio or video content), especially over the Internet, in small, sequential packets that permit the content to be played continuously as it is being received and without saving it to a hard disk. 1.   (Physical Geography) a small river; brook 2.  any steady flow of water or other fluid 3.  something that resembles a stream in moving continuously in a line or particular direction 4.  a rapid or unbroken flow of speech, etc:  a stream of abuse .  5.   (Accounting & Book-keeping) a flow of money into a business:  a revenue stream .  6.   (Education)  Brit  any of several parallel classes of schoolchildren, or divisions of children within a class, grouped together because of similar ability 7.  go with the stream  drift with the stream  to conform to the accepted standards 8.   (Industrial Relations & HR Terms)  off stream  (of an industrial plant, manufacturing process, etc) shut down or not in production 9.   (Industrial Relations & HR Terms)  on stream  a.  (of an industrial plant, manufacturing process, etc) in or about to go into operation or production b.  available or in existence 10.  (of an industrial plant, manufacturing process, etc) in or about to go into operation or production 11.  to emit or be emitted in a continuous flow:  his nose streamed blood .  12.   ( intr ) to move in unbroken succession, as a crowd of people, vehicles, etc 13.   ( intr ) to float freely or with a waving motion:  bunting streamed in the wind .  14.   ( tr ) to unfurl (a flag, etc) 15.   (Aeronautics) ( intr ) to move causing a trail of light, condensed gas, etc, as a jet aircraft 16.   (Mining & Quarrying)  mining  (when:  intr,  often foll by  for ) to wash (earth, gravel, etc) in running water in prospecting (for gold, etc), to expose the particles of ore or metal 17.   (Education)  education   Brit  to group or divide (children) in streams 18.   (Computer Science) to transfer (esp audio or video data) in a continuous flow     1.   a body of water flowing in a channel or watercourse, as a river, rivulet, or brook.     2.   any flow or current of liquid, fluid, or gas.     3.   a trail of light; beam:   a stream of moonlight.      4.   a continuous succession:   a stream of words.      5.   prevailing direction; drift:   the stream of opinion.      6.   to flow, pass, or issue in a stream.     7.   to emit a fluid copiously:   eyes streaming with tears.      8.   to extend in rays:   Sunlight streamed in.      9.   to proceed continuously:   traffic streaming by.      10.   to wave, as a flag in the wind.     11.   to hang in a flowing manner:   streaming hair.      12.   to discharge in a stream:   The wound streamed blood.      13.   to cause to float outward, as a flag. 