1.  a.   A porch or walkway bordered by colonnades. b.   A platform extending outdoors from a floor of a house or apartment building. 2.   An open, often paved area adjacent to a house serving as an outdoor living space; a patio. 3.   A raised bank of earth having vertical or sloping sides and a flat top:  turning a hillside into a series of ascending terraces for farming. 4.   A flat, narrow stretch of ground, often having a steep slope facing a river, lake, or sea. 5.  a.   A row of buildings erected on raised ground or on a sloping site. b.   A section of row houses. c.   Abbr.  Ter.  or   Terr.  A residential street, especially along the top or slope of a hill. 6.   A narrow strip of landscaped earth in the middle of a street. 1.   To provide (a house, for example) with a terrace or terraces. 2.   To form (a hillside or sloping lawn, for example) into terraces. 1.  a horizontal flat area of ground, often one of a series in a slope 2.   (Building)  a.  a row of houses, usually identical and having common dividing walls, or the street onto which they face b.  ( cap when part of a street name ):  Grosvenor Terrace .  3.   (Building) a paved area alongside a building, serving partly as a garden 4.   (Architecture) a balcony or patio 5.   (Architecture) the flat roof of a house built in a Spanish or Oriental style 6.   (Physical Geography) a flat area bounded by a short steep slope formed by the down-cutting of a river or by erosion 7.   (Soccer) ( usually plural )  a.  unroofed tiers around a football pitch on which the spectators stand b.  the spectators themselves 8.   (Rugby) ( usually plural )  a.  unroofed tiers around a football pitch on which the spectators stand b.  the spectators themselves  (Building) ( tr ) to make into or provide with a terrace or terraces    1.   a raised level with a vertical or sloping front or sides faced with masonry, turf, or the like, esp. one of a series of levels rising one above another.     2.   the top of such a construction, used as a platform, garden, road, etc.     3.   a nearly level strip of land with a more or less abrupt descent along the margin of the sea, a lake, or a river.     4.   an open, often paved area connected to a house or apartment building and serving as an outdoor living area; patio.     5.   a platform projecting from an outside wall, as of an apartment; balcony.     6.   the flat roof of a house.     7.   a row of houses on or near the top of a slope.     8.   a residential street following the top of a slope.     9.   to form into or furnish with a terrace or terraces. 