1.  a.   An apparatus for defecation and urination, usually consisting of a bowl fitted with a hinged seat and connected to a waste pipe and a flushing apparatus. b.   A room or booth containing such an apparatus. 2.   The act or process of dressing or grooming oneself. 3.   Dress; attire; costume. 4.   The cleansing of a body area as part of a surgical or medical procedure. 5.    Archaic   A dressing table. 1.   another word for  lavatory 2.  old-fashioned  the act of dressing and preparing oneself:  to make one's toilet .  3.   (Furniture)  old-fashioned  a dressing table or the articles used when making one's toilet 4.   (Clothing & Fashion)  rare  costume 5.   (Surgery) the cleansing of a wound, etc, after an operation or childbirth    1.   a bathroom fixture consisting of a bowl, usu. with a hinged seat and lid, and a device for flushing with water, used for defecation and urination.     2.   a bathroom or washroom; lavatory.     3.   a dressing room, esp. one containing a bath.     4.   the act or process of dressing or grooming oneself.     5.   the dress or costume of a person.     6.    Archaic.  a dressing table.  1.  'toilet' A  toilet  is a large bowl connected to the plumbing and used by people to get rid of waste from their bodies. British speakers also use  toilet  or  bathroom  to refer to a room containing a toilet. When this room is in a house, they might also refer to it as the  lavatory , the  loo , or the  WC .  Lavatory  and  WC  are rather old-fashioned, more formal words.  Loo  is only used in conversation. A downstairs toilet in a house is sometimes called a  cloakroom . Annette ran and locked herself in the  toilet . On the ground floor there is a large living room, a kitchen, a dining room and a  cloakroom . Can I use your  loo ? In American English, the room in a house containing a toilet is called the  bathroom .  Washroom  is also used. She had gone in to use the  bathroom . 2.  'conveniences' In British English, a group of toilets in a public place are called  public toilets , but you might see  public conveniences ,  WC , or simply  toilets  on signs. They can also be referred to as  the ladies  and  the gents . Where are the nearest  public toilets ? She made a quick visit to  the ladies  to re-apply lipstick. In American English, a room with toilets in a public place can be referred to as a  restroom , a  comfort station , or a  washroom . It can also be referred to as  the ladies' room  and  the men's room . He walked into the men's  restroom  and looked at himself in the mirror.