1.  a.   A population center that is larger than a village and smaller than a city. b.   A territorial and political unit governed by a town meeting, especially in New England. c.    Informal   A city:  New York is a big town. d.    Chiefly British   A rural village that has a market or fair periodically. e.   The residents of a town:  The whole town was upset at the news. 2.   An area that is more densely populated or developed than the surrounding area:  going into town to shop. 3.   The residents of a community in which a university or college is located, as opposed to the students and faculty:  a dispute pitting town against gown. 4.   A group of prairie dog burrows. 1.   (Human Geography)  a.  a densely populated urban area, typically smaller than a city and larger than a village, having some local powers of government and a fixed boundary b.  ( as modifier ):  town life . urban 2.   (Human Geography) a city, borough, or other urban area 3.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) (in the US) a territorial unit of local government that is smaller than a county; township 4.   (Human Geography) the nearest town or commercial district 5.   (Human Geography) London or the chief city of an area 6.   (Human Geography) the inhabitants of a town 7.  the permanent residents of a university town as opposed to the university staff and students. Compare  gown 3 8.  go to town  a.  to make a supreme or unrestricted effort; go all out b.  Austral   and   NZ   informal  to lose one's temper 9.  on the town  seeking out entertainments and amusements    1.   a thickly populated area, usu. smaller than a city and larger than a village, having fixed boundaries and certain local powers of government.     2.   a densely populated area of considerable size, as a city or borough.     3.   (esp. in New England) a municipal corporation with less elaborate organization and powers than a city.     4.   (in most U.S. states except those of New England) a township.     5.   the inhabitants of a town; townspeople; citizenry.     6.   the particular town or city in mind or referred to:   to be out of town.      7.   the main business or shopping area in a town or city; downtown.     8.    Brit.  a village or hamlet in which a periodic market or fair is held.     9.   of, pertaining to, or characteristic of a town.     1.    go to town,   Informal.    a.   to accomplish something with great speed and efficiency.     b.   to indulge oneself in a fling or binge.       2.    on the town,   Informal.  in quest of entertainment in a city's nightclubs, bars, etc.; out to have a good time. 