1.  a.   A perennial woody plant having a main trunk and usually a distinct crown. b.   A plant or shrub resembling a tree in form or size. 2.  a.   Something that resembles a tree in form, especially a diagram or arrangement that has branches showing relationships of hierarchy or lineage. b.    Computers   A structure for organizing or classifying data in which every item can be traced to a single origin through a unique path. 3.  a.   A wooden beam, post, stake, or bar used as part of a framework or structure. b.   A saddletree. 4.    Archaic   a.   A gallows. b.   The cross on which Jesus was crucified. 1.   To force up a tree:  Dogs treed the raccoon. 2.    Informal   To force into a difficult position; corner:  the reporters finally treed the mayor. 3.   To supply or cover with trees:  a hillside that is treed with oaks. 1.   (Plants) any large woody perennial plant with a distinct trunk giving rise to branches or leaves at some distance from the ground.  2.   (Plants) any plant that resembles this but has a trunk not made of wood, such as a palm tree 3.  a wooden post, bar, etc 4.   (Genetics) See  family tree ,  shoetree ,  saddletree 5.   (Chemistry)  chem  a treelike crystal growth; dendrite 6.  a.  a branching diagrammatic representation of something, such as the grammatical structure of a sentence b.  ( as modifier ):  a tree diagram .  7.   an archaic word for  gallows 8.   (Theology)  archaic  the cross on which Christ was crucified 9.  at the top of the tree  in the highest position of a profession, etc 10.  up a tree  informal   US   and   Canadian  in a difficult situation; trapped or stumped 11.   (Hunting) to drive or force up a tree 12.   (Clothing & Fashion) to shape or stretch (a shoe) on a shoetree  (Biography) Sir  Herbert Beerbohm . 1853–1917, English actor and theatre manager; half-brother of Sir Max Beerbohm. He was noted for his lavish productions of Shakespeare    1.   a plant having a permanently woody main stem or trunk, ordinarily growing to a considerable height, and usu. developing branches at some distance from the ground.     2.   any of various shrubs, bushes, and plants, as the banana, resembling a tree in form and size.     3.   something resembling a tree in shape, as a clothes tree.     4.   Also called  tree′ di`agram.  a diagram, as in linguistics or mathematics, in which lines branch out from a central point or stem without forming any closed loops.     5.    family tree.      6.   a pole, post, beam, bar, handle, or the like, as one forming part of some structure.     7.    shoetree.      8.    saddletree.      9.   a treelike group of crystals, as one forming in an electrolytic cell.     10.   a computer data structure organized like a tree whose nodes store data elements and whose branches represent pointers to other nodes in the tree.     11.    Christmas tree.      12.   a gallows or gibbet.     13.   the cross on which Christ was crucified.     14.   to drive into or up a tree, as one pursued.     15.   to put into a difficult position; corner.     16.   to stretch or shape on a tree, as a boot. 