1.   The branch of medicine that deals with the diagnosis and treatment of injury, deformity, and disease by the use of instruments. 2.  a.   Treatment based on such medicine, typically involving the removal or replacement of diseased tissue by cutting:  The athlete had surgery on his knee. b.   A procedure that is part of this treatment; an operation:  The doctor performed three surgeries this morning. 3.   An operating room or a laboratory of a surgeon or of a hospital's surgical staff:  How long has the patient been in surgery? 4.    Chiefly British   a.   A physician's, dentist's, or veterinarian's office. b.   The period during which a physician, dentist, or veterinarian consults with or treats patients in the office. 1.   (Surgery) the branch of medicine concerned with treating disease, injuries, etc, by means of manual or operative procedures, esp by incision into the body 2.   (Surgery) the performance of such procedures by a surgeon 3.   (Medicine)  Brit  a place where a doctor, dentist, etc, can be consulted 4.   (Government, Politics & Diplomacy)  Brit  an occasion when an MP, lawyer, etc, is available for consultation 5.   (Surgery)  US   and   Canadian  an operating theatre where surgical operations are performed    1.   the art, practice, or work of treating diseases, injuries, or deformities by manual or operative procedures.     2.   the branch of medicine concerned with such treatment.     3.   treatment, as an operation, performed by a surgeon.     4.   a room or place for surgical operations.     5.   any major repair or alteration produced as if by a surgical operation.     6.    Brit.  a doctor's office.  1.  the dissection or anatomy of bones. 2.  the cutting of bones as part of a surgical operation.   — osteotomist,  n. 1.  used as an uncountable noun In both British and American English,  surgery  is medical treatment in which a person's body is cut open so that a surgeon can deal with a diseased or damaged part. He underwent  surgery  to repair a torn knee ligament. She may have to have more  surgery  on her wrist. 2.  used as a countable noun A  surgery  can be used to refer to a particular medical operation. This meaning is used more in American English than British English. He has had five knee  surgeries . She was told she would have to have another  surgery . In British English, a doctor's or dentist's  surgery  is the building or room where he or she works and where people go to receive advice and minor treatment. I called the  surgery  to make an appointment. In American English, a building or room like this is called the doctor's or dentist's  office . Dr Patel's  office  was just across the street.