1.   A clear, colorless, odorless, and tasteless liquid, H 2 O, essential for most plant and animal life and the most widely used of all solvents. Freezing point 0°C (32°F); boiling point 100°C (212°F); specific gravity (4°C) 1.0000; weight per gallon (15°C) 8.338 pounds (3.782 kilograms). 2.  a.   Any of various forms of water:  waste water. b.   often   waters  Naturally occurring mineral water, as at a spa. 3.  a.   A body of water such as a sea, lake, river, or stream. b.    waters  A particular stretch of sea or ocean, especially that of a state or country:  escorted out of British waters. 4.  a.   A supply of water:  had to turn off the water while repairing the broken drain. b.   A water supply system. 5.  a.   Any of the fluids normally secreted from the body, such as urine, perspiration, tears, or saliva. b.   A fluid present in a body part in abnormal quantities as a result of injury or disease:  water on the knee. c.   The fluid surrounding a fetus in the uterus; amniotic fluid. 6.   An aqueous solution of a substance, especially a gas:  ammonia water. 7.   A wavy finish or sheen, as of a fabric or metal. 8.  a.   The valuation of the assets of a business firm beyond their real value. b.   Stock issued in excess of paid-in capital. 9.  a.   The transparency and luster of a gem. b.   A level of excellence. 1.   To pour or sprinkle water on; make wet:  watered the garden. 2.  a.   To give drinking water to. b.   To lead (an animal) to drinking water. 3.   To dilute or weaken by adding water:  a bar serving whiskey that had been watered. 4.   To give a sheen to the surface of (fabric or metal). 5.   To increase (the number of shares of stock) without increasing the value of the assets represented. 6.   To irrigate (land). 1.   To produce or discharge fluid, as from the eyes. 2.   To salivate in anticipation of food:  The wonderful aroma from the kitchen makes my mouth water. 3.   To take on a supply of water, as a ship. 4.   To drink water, as an animal. 1.   Being or holding an asset that is worth more than its purchase price or the debt owed on it. 2.   Making more than enough money to meet financial obligations. 1.   Being or holding an asset that is worth less than its purchase price or the debt owed on it. 2.   Not making enough money to meet financial obligations. 1.   (Elements & Compounds) a clear colourless tasteless odourless liquid that is essential for plant and animal life and constitutes, in impure form, rain, oceans, rivers, lakes, etc. It is a neutral substance, an effective solvent for many compounds, and is used as a standard for many physical properties. Formula: H2O.  2.   (Physical Geography) any body or area of this liquid, such as a sea, lake, river, etc 3.  ( as modifier ):  water sports ;  water transport ;  a water plant .  4.  the surface of such a body or area:  fish swam below the water .  5.   (Physical Geography) any form or variety of this liquid, such as rain 6.   (Physical Geography) See  high water ,  low water 7.   (Chemistry) any of various solutions of chemical substances in water:  lithia water ;  ammonia water .  8.   (Physiology)  physiol   a.  any fluid secreted from the body, such as sweat, urine, or tears b.   ( usually plural ) the amniotic fluid surrounding a fetus in the womb 9.   (Textiles) a wavy lustrous finish on some fabrics, esp silk 10.   (Jewellery)  archaic  the degree of brilliance in a diamond. See also  first water 11.  excellence, quality, or degree (in the phrase  of the first water ) 12.   (Banking & Finance)  finance   a.  capital stock issued without a corresponding increase in paid-up capital, so that the book value of the company's capital is not fully represented by assets or earning power b.  the fictitious or unrealistic asset entries that reflect such inflated book value of capital 13.   (Astrology) ( modifier )  astrology  of or relating to the three signs of the zodiac Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces. Compare  air 20 ,  earth 10 ,  fire 24 14.  above the water  informal  out of trouble or difficulty, esp financial trouble 15.  hold water  to prove credible, logical, or consistent:  the alibi did not hold water .  16.  in deep water  in trouble or difficulty 17.   (Physiology) to urinate 18.   (Nautical Terms) (of a boat, hull, etc) to let in water 19.   (Physiology)  pass water  to urinate 20.  test the water   See  test 1 5 21.  throw cold water on  pour cold water on  informal  to be unenthusiastic about or discourage 22.  water under the bridge  events that are past and done with 23.   ( tr ) to sprinkle, moisten, or soak with water 24.   (often foll by:  down ) to weaken by the addition of water 25.   (Physiology) ( intr ) (of the eyes) to fill with tears 26.   (Physiology) ( intr ) (of the mouth) to salivate, esp in anticipation of food (esp in the phrase  make one's mouth water ) 27.   (Agriculture) ( tr ) to irrigate or provide with water:  to water the land ;  he watered the cattle .  28.   (Physiology) ( intr ) to drink water 29.   (Nautical Terms) ( intr ) (of a ship, etc) to take in a supply of water 30.   (Banking & Finance) ( tr )  finance  to raise the par value of (issued capital stock) without a corresponding increase in the real value of assets 31.   (Textiles) ( tr ) to produce a wavy lustrous finish on (fabrics, esp silk)    1.   a transparent, odorless, tasteless liquid, a compound of hydrogen and oxygen, H 2 O, freezing at 32°F or 0°C and boiling at 212°F or 100°C, that in a more or less impure state constitutes rain, oceans, lakes, rivers, etc.     2.   a special form or variety of this liquid, as rain.     3.   Often,  waters.  this liquid in an impure state as obtained from a mineral spring.     4.   the liquid content of a river, inlet, etc., with reference to its relative height, esp. as dependent on tide:   a difference of 20 feet between high and low water.      5.   the surface of a stream, river, ocean, etc.:   boats on the water.      6.    waters,    a.   flowing water, or water moving in waves.     b.   the sea or seas bordering a particular country or continent.       7.   a liquid preparation, esp. one used for cosmetic purposes:   lavender water.      8.   Often,  waters.    a.    amniotic fluid .    b.   the bag of waters; amnion.       9.   any of various solutions of volatile or gaseous substances in water:   ammonia water.      10.   any liquid or aqueous organic secretion, exudation, humor, or the like, as tears, perspiration, or urine.     11.   fictitious assets or the inflated values given to the stock of a corporation.     12.   a wavy, lustrous pattern or marking, as on silk.     13.   (formerly) the degree of transparency and brilliancy of a diamond or other precious stone.     14.   to sprinkle or drench with water.     15.   to supply with water, as a ship.     16.   to supply (animals) with drinking water.     17.   to supply (land, a region, etc.) with water, as by streams or irrigation.     18.   to dilute, weaken, or adulterate with or as if with water (often fol. by  down ):   to water down a reprimand.      19.   to issue or increase the par value of (shares of stock) without having the necessary assets (often fol. by  down ).     20.   to produce a wavy, lustrous pattern, marking, or finish on (fabrics, metals, etc.).     21.   to discharge, fill with, or secrete water or liquid, as the eyes when irritated.     22.   to drink water, as an animal.     23.   of or pertaining to water in any way:   a water journey.      24.   holding, or designed to hold, water.     25.   worked or powered by water.     26.   heating, pumping, or circulating water (often used in combination):   a hot-water furnace.      27.   used in or on water:   water skis.      28.   containing or prepared with water.     29.   located or occurring on or by water.     30.   residing by or in, or ruling over, water:   water people; water deities.      1.    by water,  by ship or boat:   to send goods by water.      2.    hold water,  to be able to be substantiated or defended:   That accusation won't hold water.      3.    in deep water,  in great distress or difficulty.     4.    keep one's head above water,  to stay out of financial difficulties.     5.    like water,  freely; abundantly; lavishly:   The champagne flowed like water.      6.    make one's mouth water,  to excite a desire or appetite for something:   a sports car that makes your mouth water.      7.    make water,  to urinate.  1.  the process of dehydrating or removing the water from a substance. 2.  the state of being dehydrated. 1.  the study, description, and mapping of oceans, lakes, and rivers, especially with reference to their use for navigational purposes. 2.  those parts of the map, collectively, that represent surface waters.  —  hydrographer ,  n.   —  hydrographic, hydrographical ,  adj. 1.  hydrophobia 2.  an abnormal fear of water.