1.  a.   The secondary xylem of trees and shrubs, lying beneath the bark and consisting largely of cellulose and lignin. b.   This tissue when cut and dried, used especially for building material and fuel. 2.   often   woods a.   A growth of trees and other plants usually covering a smaller area than a forest. b.   A forest. 3.   An object made of wood, especially: a.    Music   A woodwind. b.    Sports   Any of a series of golf clubs used to hit long shots, having a bulbous head made of wood, metal, or graphite, and numbered one to five in order of increasing loft. 1.   To fuel with wood. 2.   To cover with trees; forest. 1.   Made or consisting of wood; wooden. 2.   Used or suitable for cutting, storing, or working with wood. 3.    woods  Living, growing, or present in forests:  woods animals; a woods path. 1.   (Botany) the hard fibrous substance consisting of xylem tissue that occurs beneath the bark in trees, shrubs, and similar plants.  2.   (Building) the trunks of trees that have been cut and prepared for use as a building material 3.   (Forestry) the trunks of trees that have been cut and prepared for use as a building material 4.   (Botany) a collection of trees, shrubs, herbs, grasses, etc, usually dominated by one or a few species of tree: usually smaller than a forest:  an oak wood .  5.   (Forestry) fuel; firewood 6.   (Golf)  golf   a.  a long-shafted club with a broad wooden or metal head, used for driving: numbered from 1 to 7 according to size, angle of face, etc b.  ( as modifier ):  a wood shot .  7.   (Tennis)  tennis   squash   badminton  the frame of a racket:  he hit a winning shot off the wood .  8.   (Squash & Fives)  tennis   squash   badminton  the frame of a racket:  he hit a winning shot off the wood .  9.   (Badminton)  tennis   squash   badminton  the frame of a racket:  he hit a winning shot off the wood .  10.   (Bowls & Bowling) one of the biased wooden bowls used in the game of bowls 11.   (Instruments)  music  short for  woodwind  See also  woods 3  (Brewing) casks, barrels, etc, made of wood 12.  have the wood on  have got the wood on  informal   Austral   and   NZ  to have an advantage over 13.  out of the wood  out of the woods  clear of or safe from dangers or doubts:  we're not out of the wood yet .  14.  see the wood for the trees   ( used with a negative ) to obtain a general view of a situation, problem, etc, without allowing details to cloud one's analysis:  he can't see the wood for the trees .  15.   (Forestry) ( modifier ) made of, used for, employing, or handling wood:  a wood fire .  16.   (Forestry) ( modifier ) dwelling in, concerning, or situated in a wood:  a wood nymph .  17.   (Forestry) ( tr ) to plant a wood upon 18.  to supply or be supplied with fuel or firewood obsolete  raging or raving like a maniac 1.   (Biography) Mrs  Henry , married name of  Ellen Price . 1814–87, British novelist, noted esp for the melodramatic novel  East Lynne  (1861) 2.   (Biography) Sir  Henry  ( Joseph ). 1869–1944, English conductor, who founded the Promenade Concerts in London 3.   (Biography)  John,  known as  the Elder . 1707–54, British architect and town planner, working mainly in Bath, where he designed the North and South Parades (1728) and the Circus (1754) 4.   (Biography) his son,  John , known as  the Younger . 1727–82, British architect: designed the Royal Crescent (1767–71) and the Assembly Rooms (1769–71), Bath 5.   (Biography)  Ralph.  1715–72, British potter, working in Staffordshire, who made the first toby jug (1762)    1.   the hard, fibrous substance composing most of the stem and branches of a tree or shrub, and lying beneath the bark; the xylem.     2.   the trunks or main stems of trees as suitable for building and other purposes; timber or lumber.     3.    firewood.      4.   Often,  woods.  a large and thick collection of growing trees; a grove or forest.     5.   a cask or keg, as distinguished from a bottle:   aged in the wood.      6.   any of a set of four golf clubs, orig. with wooden heads, used for hitting long shots. Compare  iron (def. 5).      7.   made of wood; wooden.     8.   used to store, work, or carry wood:   a wood chisel.      9.   dwelling or growing in woods:   a wood bird.      10.   to cover or plant with trees.     11.   to take in or get supplies of wood (often fol. by  up ):   to wood up before winter comes.      1.    knock on wood,  (used when knocking on something wooden to assure continued good luck):   The car's still in good shape, knock on wood.      2.    out of the woods,  no longer in a dangerous, critical, or difficult situation or condition; safe.  1.  'wood' Wood  is the material which forms the trunks and branches of trees, and which is used to make things such as furniture. He made a shelf out of a piece of  wood . The  wood  of the window frames was all rotten. Be Careful! Don't refer to a piece of wood as 'a wood'. 2.  'wooden' You don't usually use 'wood' in front of a noun to say that something is made of wood. Use  wooden . She kept their toys in a  wooden  box. They were all sitting at a long  wooden  table.